New agreements deliver $296 million of road repair funding in just three months | NSW Government Skip to navigation Skip to content menu Open Menu MyServiceNSW Logged in MyServiceNSW Manage account Logout of MyServiceNSW close Close Menu Living in NSW keyboard_arrow_right close Close Menu keyboard_arrow_left Living in NSW Back to previous menu Living in NSW east Aboriginal information and services Community services Driving, boating and transport Education and training Emergency Environment, land and water Family and relationships Grants and funding Health and wellbeing Housing and construction Legal and justice Life Events Regional and primary industries Visas and migration Popular right now NSW school holidays east NSW public holidays east NSW Government east NSW Digital ID east Living in NSW Working and business keyboard_arrow_right close Close Menu keyboard_arrow_left Working and business Back to previous menu Working and business east Aboriginal information and services Business and economy Education and training Employment Grants and funding Money and taxes Visas and migration Popular right now NSW skills lists east Department of Customer Service careers east Working interstate east Working and business What's happening keyboard_arrow_right close Close Menu keyboard_arrow_left What's happening Back to previous menu What's happening east About NSW Arts and culture Events in NSW Visiting and exploring NSW NSW public holidays NSW school holidays Popular right now NSW map catalogue east Visit Sydney east Visit regional NSW east Walks near me east What's happening Have your say Easy Read Home Ministerial releases New agreements deliver $296 million of road repair funding in just three months Ministerial media release New agreements deliver $296 million of road repair funding in just three months Published: 29 July 2024 Released by: Minister for Emergency Services,   Minister for Planning and Public Spaces,   Minister for Regional Transport Listen More than $296 million in fast tracked new funding has flowed to regional NSW councils to repair roads and transport infrastructure damaged during natural disasters in just three months. The money flowed between April and June after the NSW Labor Government announced the delivery of a series of new pilot funding agreements between councils, the NSW Reconstruction Authority and Transport for NSW. Before the introduction of Tripartite Agreements, Councils had to spend their own money repairing infrastructure before they could reimbursed with the disaster funding which has come from the Australian and NSW Governments through Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA). In March eight councils signed up to the NSW Government’s new disaster funding Tripartite Agreement pilot, enabling them to access advance funding at the beginning of each stage of reconstruction works. The Tripartite Agreements mean less financial pressure on councils, faster repairs for communities after natural disasters and better collaboration between state and local government agencies. Following the success of the initial pilot Tripartite Agreements, the NSW Government signed up more councils to help them unlock faster funding. Under tranche two of the program, eight councils have already signed up and three more councils are in the process of signing up. Minister for Planning and Public Spaces Paul Scully said: “When a region is hit by a natural disaster, the last thing councils need to worry about is coming up with the cash to restore essential road and transport infrastructure. “The new pilot agreement the NSW Government has struck with councils will now help more councils get on with the job faster, knowing they have the funds they will so desperately need.” Minister for Emergency Services Jihad Dib said: “The Tripartite Agreements are a great example of government working with communities to develop new solutions that improve disaster response. “We are committed to building on the success of these agreements and rolling out more support to help communities rebuild faster after disasters.” Minister for Regional Transport and Roads Jenny Aitchison said: “Prior to the 2022 natural disasters, state budgets only allocated around $190 million per year for disaster recovery for roads. It is fantastic that the Minns Labor Government has rolled out more than $296 million in just three months. With our record-breaking investment in this year’s budget of $3.3 billion for natural disaster road recovery, faster support is on the way for flood affected councils. “The Minns Labor Government’s new approach to disaster relief funding has been created to quickly support people in impacted communities by getting the money flowing quicker, and the road repairs delivered as fast as possible.” Parliamentary Secretary for Disaster Recovery and Member for Lismore Janelle Saffin said: “The Tripartite Agreement pilot is a major advance in disaster recovery, and importantly, it paves the way to better procedural preparedness. “It’s a first in that local councils get money upfront and don’t have to wait months or years for funding. It also means that all parties signed up to the agreements clearly understand and adhere to an assessment and acquittals process. “I’ve received extremely positive feedback from Lismore City, Kyogle, Tweed Shire and Byron Shire councils who are already taking full advantage of the new arrangements, and now Tenterfield Shire Council is one of 11 councils coming onboard in tranche two. “As Parliamentary Secretary I interact closely with most of these councils so I know what a difference it is making and will continue to make. I commend the NSW Reconstruction Authority and Transport for NSW for leading this new way of rebuilding roads and transport infrastructure.” Federal Minister for Emergency Management Murray Watt said: “The Albanese Government welcomes the efforts of the NSW Minns Government to streamline support and get disaster funding to where it’s really needed. “The last Higher Risk Weather Season saw 190 Local Government Areas nationally impacted - many in NSW and many more than once. We understand that intense, compounding natural disaster events can be a challenge for Councils, and can lead to financial strain. “All levels of Government are working in lockstep to get disaster recovery funding where it needs to go. That’s why last year the Albanese Government provided nearly $900 million in advance disaster recovery payments to the NSW Government, to help fast track payments to councils following multiple, devastating events. “It’s great to see various levels of government working together to find solutions that puts communities first.” Tranche one councils (all finalised) Tranche two councils (all finalised) Ballina Shire Council Blue Mountains City Council Byron Shire Council Cabonne Shire Council Clarence Valley Council Weddin Shire Council Kyogle Council Forbes Shire Council Lismore City Council Lachlan Shire Council Lithgow City Council Parkes Shire Council Richmond Valley Council Shoalhaven City Council Tweed Shire Council Tenterfield Shire Council Related ministerial articles Ministerial media release Strategic assessment of NSW forestry gets underway The NSW Government is progressing its alignment with the new Commonwealth Government environment laws that affect the regulation of forestry operations by tasking the NSW Natural Resources Commission (NRC) to develop a Strategic Assessment for forestry operations in NSW. Ministerial media release Five new H5 bird flu events along the NSW coast The NSW Government is responding to five new events of H5 bird flu, after samples were taken from terns at Bonny Hills, Jetty Beach and Boomerang Beach on the North Coast, a tern at Booker Bay on the Central Coast and a silver gull on Barunguba Montague Island on the Far South Coast. Ministerial media release Eight additional H5 bird flu events in NSW The NSW Government is responding to eight new events of H5 bird flu after samples were taken from Greater Crested Terns at Randwick, Cronulla, Port Botany, Milton, Berry, Kiama and Forster, and a Myna in Berry. download Download as PDF print Print this page share Share this page Facebook LinkedIn X Email mail Top of page north This page is managed by Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development Your rating will help us improve the website. Popular NSW public holidays Service NSW locations State services State flag About this website Access to information Accessibility statement Copyright Disclaimer Privacy statement NSW Government directory Departments Cabinet Office Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water Communities and Justice Creative Industries, Tourism, Hospitality and Sport Customer Service Education Health Planning, Housing and Infrastructure Premier's Department Primary Industries and Regional Development Transport Treasury NSW Government The Premier NSW Ministers Find your local Member of Parliament Boards and Committees Find a job in NSW Government About NSW NSW Government communications Unsolicited proposals We pay respect to the Traditional Custodians and First Peoples of NSW, and acknowledge their continued connection to their country and culture. Copyright © 2026