                                   Council
An Ordinary Meeting of Lismore City Council will be held at the Council
           Chambers on Tuesday 10 May 2022 at 6.00pm

                  Members of Council are requested to attend.


Lismore City Council acknowledges the people of the Bundjalung nation, traditional custodians
                              of the land on which we meet.




John Walker
General Manager

3 May 2022
                    ETHICAL DECISION MAKING AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

A guiding checklist for councillors, staff and community committees

Ethical decision making

   •   Is the decision or conduct legal?
   •   Is it consistent with Government policy, Council’s objectives and Code of Conduct?
   •   What will the outcome be for you, your colleagues, the Council, anyone else?
   •   Does it raise a conflict of interest?
   •   Do you stand to gain personally at public expense?
   •   Can the decision be justified in terms of public interest?
   •   Would it withstand public scrutiny?

Conflict of interest

A conflict of interest is a clash between private interest and public duty. There are two types of conflict:

   •   Pecuniary – an interest that you have in a matter because of a reasonable likelihood or
       expectation of appreciable financial gain or loss to yourself or another person or entity defined in
       part 4 of the Lismore City Council Code of Conduct with whom you are associated.
   •   Non-pecuniary – a private or personal interest that you have that does not amount to a pecuniary
       interest as defined in the Lismore City Council Code of Conduct. These commonly arise out of
       family or personal relationships, or out of involvement in sporting, social, religious or other
       cultural groups and associations, and may include an interest of a financial nature.

The test for conflict of interest

   •   Is it likely I could be influenced by personal interest in carrying out my public duty?
   •   Would a fair and reasonable person believe I could be so influenced?
   •   Conflict of interest is closely tied to the layperson's definition of "corruption" – using public office
       for private gain.
   •   Important to consider public perceptions of whether you have a conflict of interest.

Identifying problems

   •   Do I have private interests affected by a matter I am officially involved in?
   •   Is my official role one of influence or perceived influence over the matter?
   •   Do my private interests’ conflict with my official role?

Disclosure and participation in meetings

   •   A Councillor or a member of a Council Committee who has a pecuniary interest in any matter
       with which the Council is concerned and who is present at a meeting of the Council or Committee
       at which the matter is being considered must disclose the nature of the interest to the meeting as
       soon as practicable.
   •   The Councillor or member must not be present at, or in sight of, the meeting of the Council or
       Committee:

            a.   at any time during which the matter is being considered or discussed by the Council or
                 Committee, or
            b.   at any time during which the Council or Committee is voting on any question in relation
                 to the matter.

No Knowledge - a person does not breach this clause if the person did not know and could not
reasonably be expected to have known that the matter under consideration at the meeting was a matter
in which he or she had a pecuniary interest.
Non-pecuniary Interests - Must be disclosed in meetings.

There are a broad range of options available for managing conflicts & the option chosen will depend on
an assessment of the circumstances of the matter, the nature of the interest and the significance of the
issue being dealt with. Non-pecuniary conflicts of interests must be dealt with in at least one of the
following ways:

   •   It may be appropriate that no action be taken where the potential for conflict is minimal. However,
       Councillors should consider providing an explanation of why they consider a conflict does not
       exist.
   •   Limit involvement if practical (eg. Participate in discussion but not in decision making or vice
       versa). Care needs to be taken when exercising this option.
   •   Remove the source of the conflict (eg. Relinquishing or divesting the personal interest that
       creates the conflict)
   •   Have no involvement by absenting yourself from and not taking part in any debate or voting on
       the issue as of the provisions in the Code of Conduct (particularly if you have a significant non-
       pecuniary interest)

Whilst seeking advice is generally useful, the ultimate decision rests with the person concerned.
Agenda
1.   Opening of Meeting

2.   Acknowledgement of Country

3.   Local Government – Pause for personal reflection

4.   Apologies and Leave of Absence

5.   Confirmation of Minutes of Previous Meeting
     Lismore City Council held 12 April, 2022 ....................................................................................... 160

6.   Disclosure of Interest

7.   Public Access Session on Agenda Items

8.   Mayoral Minute(s) and Condolence Motions

9.   Notice of Rescission Motions

10. Notice of Motions
     10.1     Motion to Alter Resolution Number 95/22 ............................................................................... 7
     10.2     Temporary Dwellings on Farms .............................................................................................. 8
     10.3     Flood Impact Rate Relief ........................................................................................................ 9
     10.4     Debt Management Policy ..................................................................................................... 10
     10.5     Future Water Project 2060 ................................................................................................... 11
     10.6     Disaster Management Committee ........................................................................................ 12

11. Questions with Notice
     11.1     Terminating the Special Business Rate Variation Levy ......................................................... 15
     11.2     Lismore Flood - the human toll ............................................................................................. 16
     11.3     Lismore Memorial Baths Users............................................................................................. 17
     11.4     Businesses Operating from Home ........................................................................................ 18

12. Altering Order of Business (Consideration of altering the order of business to debate
    matters raised during Public Access)

13. Matters Arising
     13.1     Airport Annualised Landing Fees.......................................................................................... 20

14. Reports of the General Manager
     14.1     DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore ......................... 24
     14.2     Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget .......... 61
     14.3     Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond Tweed Regional Library................. 71
     14.4     Draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan .................................................................................... 85
   14.5     March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review Statement ................................................................. 87
   14.6     Investments - April 2022 ....................................................................................................... 95
   14.7     Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 3 - January to March 2022 ......................... 105
   14.8     Business Activation Working Group Councillor Representative and Terms of
            Reference .......................................................................................................................... 107
   14.9     Rates & Charges Hardship Policy ...................................................................................... 113
   14.10 Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy ............................................................................ 121
   14.11 Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy ....................................................................... 135

15. Committee Recommendations
   15.1     Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022 .......................................... 149

16. Documents for Signing and Sealing
   16.1     Documents for Signing and Sealing ................................................................................... 158

17. Financial Assistance – Section 356
Notice of Motions
                                                                                       Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Big Rob has given notice of intention to move:




That Council alter the first line of point 5 of resolution number 95/22 from the Ordinary Meeting on 12
April 2022 to read ‘Rous County Council be requested to provide information relating to:’


Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
The requested change to the Notice of Motion as printed was done on the run and adopted during the
council meeting.

The original wording in the first paragraph applying to Lismore City Council and all points originally listed
reads 'The update should include information relating to:'

When the original points from point 5 onwards were redirected to Rous County Council, the intent was to
ask them to do exactly what we were originally asking Lismore City Council to do.

This alteration is required in order to better reflect the intent of the resolution.

Cost of Implementing
Nil

Funding Source
Not required

Staff Consulted
Governance & Customer Service Manager

Staff Comment
Not required


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/275:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Motion to Alter Resolution Number 95/22                                      7
                                                                                 Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Vanessa Ekins has given notice of intention to move:




That Council prepare a draft policy and guidelines to allow multiple temporary dwellings on rural
property in times of disaster.



Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
Due to the significant homelessness experienced after the recent floods and the urgency to provide
accommodation, there may be opportunity to allow temporary housing on some rural properties,
providing adequate infrastructure is provided. With an understanding of the issues and assessment
process, Council may decide to progress this opportunity.

Issues for consideration in developing such guidelines would include:

   •   Site suitability (ie is it flood prone, or in a high bushfire risk area)
   •   Provision of water and suitable waste water management (a Section 68 approval would be
       required for any new water or wastewater services)
   •   Suitable amenities (toilets and showers)
   •   Maximum number of temporary dwellings
   •   Maximum period temporary dwelling could remain on site
   •   Whether a site plan is required from landowner and a letter indicating compliance provided by
       Council, OR whether it was self-regulated (as is the case with the single moveable dwelling)
   •   Vehicle access
   •   Setback from boundaries / impact on adjoining properties
   •   Whether registration with DCJ or other agencies was required
   •   Setback from bushfire vegetation
   •   Whether any vegetation was required to be cleared

Cost of Implementing
Staff time

Funding Source
Disaster Recovery Grants

Staff Consulted
Director Partnerships Planning & Engagement

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/276:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Temporary Dwellings on Farms                                             8
                                                                                Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Adam Guise has given notice of intention to move:




That Council writes to the Premier and relevant NSW State Government Ministers, requesting they pay
for the rates and water charges of Lismore LGA ratepayers impacted by the 2022 floods for the
FY2022-23.


Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
It is estimated that the 2022 floods have rendered nearly 3000 homes uninhabitable and some 3500
businesses unable to operate.

Following the 2019-20 bushfires, the NSW State Government paid the rates for those impacted by the
bushfires. The Deputy Premier said at the time “The last thing our communities need right now is more
financial stress, which is why the NSW Government is doing everything to ease the burden by funding
the rates and picking up the bill for the clean-up, at no cost to owners” The NSW Local Government
Minister noted there was a loss of more than 2400 homes and said “It is simply unfair to expect
somebody to go through the heartbreak of losing their home and then expect them to pay rates on a
property they can no longer live in.”

Cost of Implementing
Nil

Funding Source
NSW Government

Staff Consulted
Executive during briefings

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/277:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Flood Impact Rate Relief                                               9
                                                                                  Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Big Rob has given notice of intention to move:




That:
    1.    Council creates a Debt Management Policy to ensure options relating to the writing off,
          waiving or reducing of debts are consistent with provisions contained in the Local Government
          Act and Regulation and
    2.    section 567 (Writing off of accrued interest), section 607 (Writing off of rates, charges and
          accrued interest), and Section 610E (Council may waive or reduce fees), of the Local
          Government Act 1993, and regulation 131 (Procedures for writing off rates and charges), and
          regulation 213 (Restrictions on writing off debts to a council), of the Local Government
          (General) Regulation 2021, be considered for inclusion in the Policy



Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
Nil

Cost of Implementing
Nil

Funding Source
Not required

Staff Consulted
Nil

Staff Comment
General Manager
Councillor Rob’s notice of motion suggests the creation of a debt management policy to ensure
consistency with the Local Government Act. Whilst understanding his intent, the reality is the Act is the
source of power for debt management and a policy that mirrors it is not considered necessary.

Similarly the inclusion of the various sections of the Act and Regulation quoted by Councillor Rob are
also not considered necessary as the General Manager is required to follow all the mentioned provisions
irrespective of policy.


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/278:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Debt Management Policy                                                 10
                                                                                 Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Big Rob has given notice of intention to move:




That Council:
    1.   provide a letter of support to Rous County Council regarding the Future Water Project 2060,
         recognising its role in the region’s recovery and resilience building
    2.   seek out and apply for any available funding options to ensure the Future Water Project 2060
         is delivered successfully as part of the region’s recovery and resilience building.



Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
A letter of support from Lismore City Council can be used by Rous County Council as part of ongoing
funding and other project representations.

The Future Water Project 2060 is more than a water security project. It is a key component of the
region’s economic recovery.

Cost of Implementing
Nil

Funding Source
Not required

Staff Consulted
Nil

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/279:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Future Water Project 2060                                               11
                                                                                   Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Big Rob has given notice of intention to move:




That:
    1.    Council prepare Terms of Reference establishing a Disaster Management Committee
    2.    the Committee consist of councillors and relevant staff, with relevant experts invited to attend
          Committee meetings as required
    3.    the Committee be tasked with creating, reviewing, maintaining and/or updating emergency
          management, disaster and/or recovery plans relating to any part of the Lismore City Council
          local government area
    4.    except when considering sensitive or personal information during closed sessions, Committee
          meetings be open to the public and live streamed to allow the Committee to receive input from
          local residents both in attendance and viewing remotely as part the planning process
    5.    the Committee be empowered to create sub committees and working groups as required
    6.    the Chair of the Committee be a councillor, other than the Mayor, elected by councillor
          members of the Committee, who can call meetings as required.



Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
The establishment of a Disaster Management Committee who will meet regularly prior to and following a
disaster, to collate, update and keep current all planning material required to help better prepare for,
manage and recover from disasters in our local government area.

Cost of Implementing
Unknown

Funding Source
Unknown

Staff Consulted
Nil

Staff Comment
Manager Assets
Council has membership of the Local Emergency Management Committee (LEMC) which undertakes
many of the functions outlined in the Notice of Motion. The LEMC is a statutory committee constituted
under the State Emergency and Rescue Management Act (SERM Act).

Lismore City Council is a member of the Northern Rivers Local Emergency Management Committee
which includes Richmond Valley and Kyogle Councils.

As required by the legislation, Council membership of the LEMC is the General Manager, or appointed
delegate and the Local Emergency Management Officer (LEMO).

One of the tasks of the LEMC is to prepare an Emergency Management Plan (EMPLAN) and various
sub-plans that support preparedness, response and recovery from disasters.


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Disaster Management Committee                                           12
                                                                                 Notice of Motion
Council has also undertaken significant work within our community following the 2017 flood and 2019/20
bushfires to improve resilience and preparedness for disasters. This has lead to the establishment of the
Local Emergency Recovery Network (LERN) and preparation of recovery/resilience plans for
communities in the Nimbin area.

Any proposed committee would therefore need to be focused on matters not already within the remit of
the LEMC to avoid duplication and potential inconsistency or conflict with the processes and plans of the
LEMC.

As such the suggested Committee is not supported in the form outlined as it is not considered
necessary.

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/280:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Disaster Management Committee                                         13
Questions with Notice
                                                                      Questions with Notice
Questions with Notice
Councillor Big Rob has put the following question with notice:




Can the General Manager confirm whether or not we can stop charging businesses the Special
Business Rate Variation Levy (SBRVL), if so, could we terminate the SBRVL effective immediately, if
not, are there any plans to apply to continue the SBRVL beyond 30 June 2023?


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/269:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Terminating the Special Business Rate Variation
 Levy
                                                                                               15
                                                                        Questions with Notice
Questions with Notice
Councillor Big Rob has put the following question with notice:




Following ongoing speculation from many members of our community, can the General Manager
please confirm the official number of lives lost in the Lismore local government area during the 28
February 2022 catastrophic flood event?


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/272:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Lismore Flood - the human toll                                        16
                                                                   Questions with Notice
Questions with Notice
Councillor Big Rob has put the following question with notice:




Considering the impact of the 2022 floods, and the extended delays expected before we see the
Lismore Memorial Baths operating again, what allowances have been made to provide access to the
Goonellabah Sports & Aquatic Centre pool to Lismore Memorial Baths swimming club and other users
until the Lismore Memorial Baths reopens to the public?


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/273:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Lismore Memorial Baths Users                                   17
                                                                     Questions with Notice
Questions with Notice
Councillor Big Rob has put the following question with notice:




Considering subdivision 22 of SEPP (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008, can the
General Manager please outline options available to business owners adversely impacted by the recent
floods to operate their businesses from home without requiring consent, additional options available
where consent may still be required, and whether a moratorium relating to compliance action is
currently in place while businesses try to recover?


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

 TRIM Record No: BP22/281:EF19/25-4




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Businesses Operating from Home                                   18
Matters Arising
                                                                                    Matters Arising
Matters Arising
 Subject                  Airport Annualised Landing Fees
 TRIM Record No           BP22/233:EF12/282-02

 Prepared by              Business Manager - Commercial Services

 Reason                   Reporting results of community consultation process.

 Strategic Theme          A prosperous and vibrant city

 Strategy                 Our community is connected and convenient.

 Action                   Maintain and develop airport and aviation services.



Executive Summary
At Council’s ordinary meeting of 8 February 2022 it was resolved that Council amend the airport fees to:
    1.      Annual subscriptions as prior to landing fee increases on 1 July 2021
    2.      Current fee structure remain for the weekend/ recreational pilots.

For the adopted Fees and Charges to be amended, the proposed changes are required to be advertised
for a period of 28 days.

Following public exhibition of the proposed fee amendment via the Your Say Lismore page on Council’s
web site all submissions received were supportive of the proposed change.

This report recommends the 2021/22 Fees and Charges be amended to include the proposed changes.


Recommendation
 That:
     1.     Council reintroduce annualised landing subscriptions for the Lismore Regional Airport
            effective 10 May 2022 and be listed in Council’s Fees and Charges.
     2.     The fees for 2021/22 be as follows:
            a) Resident aircraft per annum – general aircraft: $356.25
            b) Resident aircraft per annum – ultralight:       $240.88
            c) Commercial Operations – unlimited movements: $707.50


Background
At the February 2022 Council meeting it was resolved to amend the airport fees to include annualised
subscriptions as per the 2020/21 financial year and that pay-as-you-go fees remain for weekend and
recreational pilots.

Following the Council meeting the proposal for the reintroduction of the annualised landing subscriptions
was advertised on the Your Say Lismore web platform for a period of at least 28 days, with nine
submissions being received.


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Airport Annualised Landing Fees                                       20
                                                                                       Matters Arising
All submissions received were supportive of the reintroduction of the annualised landing subscription.

Annualised landing fees are an annual fee subscription option that aircraft operators (commercial or
private) can enter into via written request to Council’s General Manager; allowing a flat fee per aircraft per
year (or on a pro rata basis) regardless of landing and/or touch and go events.

The pay-as-you-use option will remain unchanged.

The proposed annualised landing fee subscription for 2021/22 is provided below. This proposal is
the 2020/21 fee plus CPI of 1.8%.

                                                                           Adopted Fee        Proposed Fee
  Fee Description
                                                                           2020/21            2021/22
  Resident aircraft per annum – general aircraft                               $350.00            $356.00
  Resident aircraft per annum – ultralight                                     $235.00            $241.00
  Commercial Operations – unlimited movements                                  $690.20            $708.00

It is proposed to implement the annualised landing fee subscription from the date of the May 2022 Council
meeting if resolved by Council. Any airport user making a request for an annualised landing fee
subscription from this date will receive pro-rata fees up until 30 June 2022.

Council staff are supportive of the annualised fee as a mechanism to promote growth and stability in the
aviation community, particularly during a significant rebuild phase in Lismore. The annualised landing fee
makes local aircraft operations easier and helps encourage use of the airport.

Council should note there will be a budget impact due to the reintroduction of the annualised landing
subscription. The annualised landing fee has been included in the fees and charges for the draft budget
for 2022/23, and if adopted, general aviation fee income for the airport will need to be reduced by $20,000.
It should also be acknowledged that if any other current commercial operators at the airport increase air
operations and seek the annualised subscription, additional revenue opportunities to cover the cost of
airport operations will not be realised.

To the end of March 2022 the general aviation landing fee income for 2021/22 was $28,293.74, which is
on track to achieve the annual budget of $39,500.00. This income however consists of 100% pay-as-you-
go usage fees.

The Airport Masterplan project currently underway will help identify future options for the airport in order
to reduce the operating deficit. The Airport Masterplan and development plan will include options for
revenue generation.

Council uses the Avdata third party billing system to record, transcribe landing fees, send invoices and
accept payments. Council receives a monthly payment from Avdata for the previous month. During the
flood the Lismore Avdata ground unit was damaged when the terminal building flooded. Avdata sourced
the radio transcription data from Casino and Ballina airports to continue to bill landing fees at Lismore.
This was possible due to Lismore, Ballina and Casino operating on the same radio frequency.

Airport users have continued to be invoiced for their landing fees since the flood. However, there was a
period of time for both floods where an emergency radio frequency was used at the airport and aircraft
using the airport during this time were not charged. There has been some enquiry from airport users about
the charging of users while the airport facilities were compromised. However, the runway facilities have
been fully operational during daylight hours and the pay-as-you-go landing fees have been in place.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Airport Annualised Landing Fees                                           21
                                                                                    Matters Arising
Comments
Finance
Not required.

Other staff comments
Not required.

Public consultation
Public consultation was undertaken on the Your Say Lismore page of Council’s web site for 28 days and
nine submissions were received.

Conclusion
At Council’s ordinary meeting of 8 February 2022 it was resolved that Council amend the airport fees to
reintroduce annual subscriptions as prior to landing fee increases on 1 July 2021 and that the current fee
structure remain for weekend/ recreational pilots.

The proposal was advertised on Your Say Lismore with only positive submissions received. It is
recommended the amendments be adopted as proposed.

Attachment/s
 1.   Lismore Regional Airport Usage and Charges until 30 March 2022 - This matter is considered to
      be confidential under Section 10A(2) (d iii) of the Local Government Act, as it deals with
      commercial information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed reveal a trade secret




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Airport Annualised Landing Fees                                       22
Reports of the General
Manager
                                                                                                  Report
Report
Subject                 DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
                        Drive, East Lismore
TRIM Record No          BP22/227:DA21/562

Prepared by             Building Surveyor Coordinator

Reason                  As variation of height exceeds 10% of Development Standard Council is to
                        determine the application.
Strategic Theme         Our built environment

Strategy                Our built environment is managed and enhanced to meet the needs of our
                        growing community.
Action                  Ensure new buildings and infrastructure meets relevant standards.



Executive Summary
Council has received a Development Application (DA21/562) for the construction of a Dwelling, Carport
and Retaining wall on the property at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore. The application is inclusive of
a variation to Lismore Local Environmental Plan 2012 Clause 4.3(2).

This clause enables Council to consider the approval of a height of a building within specified zones. The
variation sought is to the standard that specifies:

   •     The height of a building on any land is not to exceed the maximum height shown for the land on
         the Height of Buildings Map.

A circular from the Department of Planning, Industry and Environment dated 15 December 2017 notified
Council’s, where a Local Environmental Plan numerical standard is varied by greater than 10% only the
Council can assume the Secretary’s concurrence to determine the application. Therefore, as the
variation sought in this instance is a 34.6% variation to the development standard, it requires the
determination by Council.

This report provides an assessment of the application and recommends Council approve the proposed
variation to Clause 4.3(2) of the Lismore Local Environmental Plan 2012.

Draft conditions of consent are included as Attachment 1 to this report.

Recommendation
That:
    1.     Pursuant to Clause 55 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021,
           Council assumes the concurrence of the Secretary of the Department of Planning, Industry
           and Environment for a Lismore Local Environmental Plan 2012 Clause 4.6 variation to the
           development standard in Clause 4.3(2) that the height of a building on any land to consider
           the exceedance of the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map.
    2.     Pursuant to Section 4.16 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979, Council
           grant consent to Development Application 5.2021.562.1 for a dwelling with a height variation,
           carport with a building line variation, removal of 4 trees and a retaining wall at 6 Belvedere
           Drive, East Lismore, subject to the draft conditions attached to this report.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                   24
                                                                                                      Report
Background
Council has received a Development Application for the construction of a dwelling, carport and retaining
wall on the property at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore.

The application seeks a Clause 4.6 variation to the Lismore Local Environmental Plan 2012 Clause 4.3(2),
which enables Council to review the height of a building on any land, is not to exceed the maximum height
shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map and specifically that:

•     Maximum height of building is not to exceed 8.5metres vertically above existing ground level.

The variation is supported by Council’s Development Assessment Staff, having principal regard historically
noting that on steeply sloping sites compliance cannot be readily achieved & is consistent with the
objectives of the planning instruments to build to the contours of the land.

Clause 55 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 authorises Council to assume
the Secretary’s concurrence for variations to development standards made under Clause 4.6. Accordingly,
as the variation sought in this application is 34.6% to the development standard, it requires the referral of
the matter for Determination by Council.




Figure 1 View of allotment looking north




    Lismore City Council
    Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
    Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                      25
                                                                         Report




Figure 2 View of allotment looking west




Figure 3 Architectural impression of dwelling




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                         26
                                                                                                     Report
Locality Plan




Figure 4 Locality – 6 Belvedere Drive East Lismore

Description of the Proposal
The applicant seeks to construct a dwelling on a steeply sloping allotment of land. The proposed
development includes the following components:

•     The new dwelling is an elevated single storey building comprising of two (2) bedrooms, a study, an
      open plan living/dining/kitchen area, a bathroom, covered deck attached to the north elevation.
•      A double carport is attached to the southern elevation of the dwelling.
•     The new dwelling is proposed to have external walls clad with grey corrugated steel sheeting and a
      grey colorbond roof.
•     Access to the dwelling is proposed from Belvedere Drive to the carport with a new driveway.
•     The application seeks a variation to the building line from Belvedere Drive to the carport and retaining
      wall to 0 metres. The statutory building line is 6.0 metres.
•     Removal of three trees
•     The siting of the dwelling on the allotment complies with statutory side boundaries setbacks.




    Lismore City Council
    Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
    Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                      27
                                                                                               Report
Site Plan




Figure 5: Site Plan

Description of the Locality
The subject site is located in East Lismore. The site comprises a total area of approximately 800m2 with
access proposed to the dwelling from Belvedere Drive.

Adjoining development comprises of residential dwellings.

Assessment of Development Application
Statutory Controls
Lismore LEP 2012
Zoning – R1 – General Residential
Item of Heritage – No
S7.11 Contributions Plan
Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979
Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016
SEPP (Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021
SEPP (Resilience and Hazards) 2021
SEPP (BASIX) 2004

Policy Controls
Lismore Development Control Plan
Contaminated Land policy
 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                28
                                                                                                          Report
Referral Officer’s comments
Engineering/Traffic
The application has been reviewed and comments provided by specialist staff, with no objections raised
subject to the imposition of appropriate conditions which have been included in the draft conditions
attached to this report.

Tree Preservation Officer
The application has been reviewed and comments provided by specialist staff, with no objections raised
subject to the imposition of appropriate conditions which have been included in the draft conditions
attached to this report.

External Agency Referrals
CASA
The application has been reviewed and comments provided by Council’s Airport Coordinator, who raised
no objection to the proposed development.

Notification / Submissions
The development application was notified to adjoining landowners in accordance with Council’s
Community Engagement Strategy and Participation Plan. One submission was received.

  Name of Submitter     Issues Raised                                     Comments
  L De Pra              1.   The impact of building and associated        Structural engineering plans submitted
                             earthworks in destabilizing the large        with the application show that
                             surface rocks and rock embankment            earthworks will involve the construction
                             behind my house. I am extremely              of piers and a footing for a retaining
                             concerned about the impact of vibration      wall adjacent to the front boundary of
                             and similar building works causing           the allotment.
                             movement and dislodgement of rocks.          This type of construction will limit the
                             Being located on a very steep slope,         amount of vibration and the
                             there is a high risk that rocks will roll    dislodgement of rock materials.
                             down into my backyard and cause
                             damage to my retaining wall and house.
                        2.   I am also concerned about the impact of      The Geotechnical report submitted
                             vibration from the general works and         with the application did not encounter
                             specifically damage to my house due to       any groundwater during the
                             possible drilling and piling. In regard to   investigative work on the allotment.
                             drilling and piling, there is also a
                             concern about the effect of the pylons       The submitters dwelling is sited
                             on possible redirection of underground       approximately 28metres from the
                             springs and water table towards my           proposed dwelling. Due to the slope of
                             property.                                    the allotment only small machinery will
                                                                          be used for the drilling of the pier
                                                                          holes. Due to the type of machinery to
                                                                          be used and the distance between
                                                                          buildings it is considered unlikely that
                                                                          that there will be any adverse impacts
                                                                          upon the adjoining property.
                        3.   Privacy in terms of the building view, it    The subject dwelling is located in a
                             will be overlooking my house, backyard       northwest direction from the submitters
                             and in particular the side of the house      dwelling.
                             where the bedrooms and their windows
                             are located. I would be satisfied with the   The siting of the proposed dwelling on
                             existing native trees as well as other       the land complies with the
                             trees/shrubs which are ‘native wildlife      requirements of Clause A5.4 of
                             friendly’ for an environmental buffer.       Chapter 1 of the DCP for setback


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                           29
                                                                                                                Report
  Name of Submitter       Issues Raised                                        Comments
                               It is also in keeping with the aesthetic of     distances to ensure visual privacy is
                               the requirements of the Community               maintained.
                               Association Strata Plan – DP 270567,
                               noting the property will be overlooking         The application does not propose to
                               my house which is part of a strata              remove any of the existing native
                               development. In saying this, I have             vegetation located between the subject
                               worked at the back of the property for          dwelling and the submitters dwelling.
                               many years, planting a range of native          This has also been conditioned.
                               trees to provide shelter and food for
                               wildlife in particular birds and butterflies.   The application does not propose any
                               My strong preference is not for a colour-       fencing to be erected. The erection of
                               bond fence or similar. Rather, I would          a dividing fence between the two
                               very much prefer an environmental               properties is regulated by the Dividing
                               buffer as I outlined earlier.                   Fences Act 1991 and is a private
                                                                               matter between the owners of the
                                                                               properties.
                          4.   Drainage is another point of concern.           Stormwater from dwelling is to be
                               Request that drainage for this site is          connected to Council stormwater
                               managed appropriately in order that             drainage system. Paved areas around
                               there is no impact on my property and           dwelling to be directed to the dwelling’s
                               house. Under no condition is                    drainage system. Condition is to be
                               drainage/water to be diverted onto my           imposed on Consent.
                               property as a result of this construction.
                          5.   Ask that building works do not                  Condition is placed on Consent stating
                               commence before 7.00am and if                   that building works are to commence
                               possible no building works to occur on          from 7.00am through to 5.00pm
                               weekends.                                       Monday to Friday, 800am to 1.00pm
                                                                               on Saturday and no work on Sunday.

Matters for Consideration
The relevant matters for consideration under Section 4.15 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment
Act 1979, are assessed under the following headings:

Lismore LEP 2012
Zone, Definition and Permissibility
The proposed development is permissible, subject to consent, as a “Dwelling and Carport” within the R1
– General Residential zone under the provisions of the Lismore LEP 2012.

Definition:
dwelling means a room or suite of rooms occupied or used or so constructed or adapted as to be capable
of being occupied or used as a separate domicile.

dwelling house means a building containing only one dwelling.
Note— Dwelling houses are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.

Zone Objectives and Land Use Table
The proposed dwelling is a permitted use, subject to consent, within the R1 General Residential zone.

Having regard to the provisions of Lismore LEP 2012, it is considered that:
(a) The development is in accordance with clause 2.3 and promotes the specific aims of the plan, the
     objectives of the zone and the objectives of the controls; and
(b) The development is in accordance with and promotes the character of the neighborhood within which
     the development is carried out.

As such, consent to the development may be granted.


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                                 30
                                                                                                        Report
Part 4 – Principal Development Standards
1. Height of buildings (clause 4.3)
     (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows—

        (a) to establish a maximum height for buildings,
        (b) to provide for taller buildings in the city centre and to enable a transition in building height in
             response to varying urban character and function,
        (c) to protect the amenity of neighbouring properties and public places, with particular regard to
             visual bulk, scale, overshadowing, privacy and views.
     (2) The height of a building on any land is not to exceed the maximum height shown for the land on
         the Height of Buildings Map.




     Subject site
     Figure 6: Copy of Height of Buildings Map Sheet HOB_006AB
     Comment
     The height limit for the site is 8.5 metres.

     The DA proposes the height of the dwelling to 11.445 metres which exceeds the height limit for the
     address by 2.945 metres.

2.   Exceptions to development standards (clause 4.6)

     The DA includes a clause 4.6 request to vary the building height development standard.

     The objects of this clause are;
     (a) to provide an appropriate degree of flexibility in applying certain development standards to
         particular development,
     (b) to achieve better outcomes for and from development by allowing flexibility in particular
         circumstances.

     Development consent may be granted under Clause 4.6(3) for a development that would otherwise
     contravene a development standard imposed by an environmental planning instrument where the
     applicant has provided a written request demonstrating:

     (a) that compliance with the development standard is unreasonable or unnecessary in the
         circumstances of the case, and

 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                         31
                                                                                                   Report
   (b) that there are sufficient environmental planning grounds to justify contravening the
          development standard.

   The variation being sought is not prohibited by Clause 4.6(6) or 4.6(8).

   The Clause sought to be varied is 4.3(2) being that:

   •   The height of a building on any land is not to exceed the maximum height shown for the land on
       the Height of Buildings Map.
   •   The land is within Area ‘I’ of the height of LLEP 2012 Buildings MapHOB_006AB. The maximum
       building height in Area ‘I’ is 8.5metres. The proposed height of the dwelling is approximately
       11.445 metres above ground level, a difference of 2.945 metres.

   The following table addresses the considerations in Appendix 3 of the Department of Planning and
   Environment’s guide on varying development standards by the applicant:

 Considerations                                       Planner’s comments
 1. What is the name of the environmental             Lismore Local Environmental Plan 2012
 planning instrument that applies to the land?        (LLEP2012)

 2. What is the zoning of the land?                   R1 – General residential
 3. What are the objectives of the zone?              • To provide for the housing needs of the
                                                          community.
                                                      • To provide for a variety of housing types and
                                                         densities.
                                                      • To enable other land uses that provide facilities
                                                          or services to meet the day to day needs of
                                                          residents.
                                                      • To ensure that new development is compatible
                                                          with the character, and preserves the amenity,
                                                          of each residential area.
 4. What is the development standard being            The height of a building on any land is not to
 varied?                                              exceed the maximum height shown for the land on
                                                      the Height of Buildings Map.

                                                      The land is within Area ‘I’ of the height of LLEP
                                                      2012 Buildings Map HOB_006AB. The maximum
                                                      building height in Area ‘I’ is 8.5metres.
 5. Under what clause is the development              Clause 4.3(2) of the Lismore LEP 2012
 standard listed in the environmental planning
 instrument?
 6. What are the objectives of the development        a) to establish a maximum height for buildings,
 standard?                                            b) to provide for taller buildings in the city centre
                                                         and to enable a transition in building height in
                                                         response to varying urban character and
                                                         function,
                                                      c) to protect the amenity of neighbouring
                                                         properties and public places, with particular
                                                         regard to visual bulk, scale, overshadowing,
                                                         privacy and views.
 7. What is the numeric value of the development      8.5 metres.
 standard in the environmental planning
 instrument?
 8. What is the proposed numeric value of the         11.445 metres
 development standard in your development
 application?
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                     32
                                                                                                Report
 Considerations                                      Planner’s comments
 9. What is the percentage variation (between the    34.6%
 proposal and the environmental planning
 instrument?
 10. How is strict compliance with the development   The subject allotment is steeply sloping in a
 standard unreasonable or unnecessary in this        downwards direction from the southern front
 particular case?                                    boundary to the rear northern boundary. The
                                                     slope has been calculated at approximately
                                                     37.5% or 20.50.

                                                     Strict compliance would require the dwelling to be
                                                     located further down the allotment to reduce the
                                                     height which would then make access from the
                                                     street more difficult for the owners who are
                                                     approaching retirement age and have mobility
                                                     issues which requires them to have a house
                                                     design on one level.

                                                     The driveway gradients for safe vehicular and
                                                     pedestrian passage would also be difficult to
                                                     achieve.

                                                     The height will only be exceeded along the
                                                     northern elevation as the land slopes steeply
                                                     away at this point. At the southern elevation of the
                                                     building the height complies with the height limit.

                                                     The dwelling when viewed from the Belvedere
                                                     Streetscape will generally be observed as a single
                                                     storey only.

                                                     The proposed dwelling is consistent with the
                                                     objectives of clause 4.3(1), is unlikely to have an
                                                     adverse impact upon the amenity of the adjoining
                                                     neighbours and is unlikely to affect the views of
                                                     properties on the southern side of Belvedere
                                                     Drive.
 11. How would strict compliance hinder the          Strict compliance would hinder the attainment of
 attainment of the objects specified in Section      the following objectives:
 5(a)(i) and (ii) of the Act?                        (c) to promote the orderly and economic use and
                                                         development of land,
 NB: Objectives are now Section 1.3 of the Act.      (h) to promote the proper construction and
                                                         maintenance of buildings, including the
                                                         protection of the health and safety of their
                                                         occupants,

                                                     The proposed works will involve the construction
                                                     of an elevated dwelling on a steeply sloping
                                                     allotment of land.
                                                     The proposed works will enable a dwelling to be
                                                     constructed on the allotment and which also
                                                     provides off-street parking for two (2) motor
                                                     vehicles.
                                                     This development promotes a valuable economic
                                                     use of a vacant allotment of land.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                 33
                                                                                                     Report
     Considerations                                      Planner’s comments
     12. Would strict compliance with the standard, in   The applicant has satisfactorily demonstrated that
     your particular case, be unreasonable or            strict compliance is unreasonable or unnecessary
     unnecessary? Why?                                   in this case as discussed at item 10. Minimal
                                                         adverse impacts have been identified and the
                                                         proposal is consistent with the objectives of the
                                                         clause.
     13. Are there sufficient environmental planning     • The proposed development is consistent with
     grounds to justify contravening the development         the approved and permissible use of the land.
     standard? Give details.                             • The proposed development will not result in
                                                             land use conflict.
                                                         • The proposed development generally meets all
                                                             the objectives of Clause 4.3.
                                                         • There is no loss of amenity and no apparent
                                                             adverse social, environmental or economic
                                                             impacts.

It is considered, in the circumstances of this development application, the applicant has sufficiently met
the requirements of Clause 4.6(3).

In accordance with Clause 4.6(4)(ii), the consent authority can be satisfied, the proposed development will
be in the public interest because it is consistent with the objectives of the identified standard and the
objectives for development within the zone in which the development is proposed to be carried out.

Clause 55 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 authorises Council to assume
and or act for the Secretary, to grant concurrence for exemptions to development standards made under
Clause 4.6.


Part 5 – Miscellaneous Provisions
3.   Heritage conservation (cl 5.10)
     The proposed development is identified as not being in a heritage conservation zone.

4.      Bushfire hazard reduction (cl 5.11)
        The subject allotment is not located within a bushfire buffer zone. No hazard reduction is proposed
        to occur.

5.      Flood planning (cl 5.21)
        The proposed development is identified as not being in a flood area

Part 6 – Additional Local Provisions
6.   Earthworks (cl 6.2)
     Minor earthworks are to occur which will involve the excavation for piers and a footing for a
     retaining wall.

7.      Drinking water catchments (cl 6.4)
        The property is outside the drinking water catchment for the Wilson’s River.

8.      Airspace operations (cl 6.5)
        The application was referred to CASA. Council’s Airport Coordinator has reviewed the application
        on behalf of CASA and advised no objection is raised to this proposed development.

9.      Development in areas subject to aircraft noise (cl 6.6)
        Not applicable

10.     Essential services (cl 6.9)

 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                     34
                                                                                                     Report
     Essential utility services are provided to the site
Schedule 5 – Environmental Heritage
Not applicable

Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016
The proposed development requires development consent from Council under Part 4 of the Environmental
Planning and Assessment Act 1979.

The proposed development is not on land included on the Biodiversity Values Map (see below).

The proposed development does not involve clearing of native vegetation or habitat in excess of the area
clearing threshold.

The proposed development is unlikely to cause a fragmentation of the existing habitat.

The proposed development is unlikely to significantly affect threatened species or ecological communities,
or their habitats, and is not in a declared area of outstanding biodiversity value.

A Biodiversity Development Assessment Report is therefore not required to be submitted.

The test under section 7.3 of the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 has been conducted and the proposal
does not trigger the offset scheme threshold.

Subject site




Figure 7: Copy of NSW Biodiversity Values Map

SEPP – (Biodiversity and Conservation) - 2021
The site is under 1ha in area and is not identified as having any koala habitat on the site.

The proposed dwelling is to be located clear of the majority of the existing vegetation on the site, but
however will involve the removal of 4 trees, inclusive of an exempt fruit tree, weed species and two other
poor specimens.

On this basis it was concluded that further investigation into core koala habitat, or an individual koala plan
of management, is not required for this development under the terms of the SEPP The site is over 1ha in
area, and there may be potential koala habitat on the site.

Lismore City Council has adopted a Comprehensive Koala Plan of Management for south-east Lismore –
2013. A review of this Plan in relation to the proposed development is to be undertaken.

 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                      35
                                                                                                Report
Lismore City Council – Comprehensive Koala Plan of Management for south-east Lismore 2013
The site is under 1ha in area and is not identified as having any koala habitat on the site.
The plan of management is not applicable to the subject property.

Bushfire
EP&A Act - Section 4.14 Consultation and development consent—certain bush fire prone land

Council’s planning layer shows the tip of the southwest corner to be located within the Bushfire Buffer
Zone as shown on the image below. This area consists of mown grass which is maintained and is unlikely
to pose a hazard to the subject dwelling.




Figure 8: Copy of Map of Bushfire Prone Land

SEPP (Resilience and Hazards) 2021
Following a review of available information, Council is unaware of any contamination affecting the site.
The subject site has been considered in the context of Clause 7 of State Environmental Planning Policy
55 and the Contaminated Lands Management Act and is considered unlikely the subject site presents
contamination issues such that remediation would be required for the development to proceed.

SEPP (BASIX) 2004
The proposed development has been accompanied by a compliant BASIX Certificate and the plans
submitted reflect these commitments.

Lismore Development Control Plan
The application has been assessed against the relevant controls in the Lismore DCP as indicated in the
following compliance table, and comments are provided where the proposal does not strictly comply with
the applicable provisions or conditions are required to address certain matters. Additional more detailed
comments with regard to the major issues are provided after the table.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                 36
                                                                                                          Report
1.      Development Control Plan Compliance Table

     LISMORE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN

                         Complies        Comments
                         Yes/No
     Residential Development
     4.1 - Element –     No              The dwelling will be setback approximately 6.0metres from
     Setbacks, Design,                   the front boundary.
     Density and Height  Variation
                         required for    However, due to the steeply sloping nature of the allotment
                         the building    the proposed carport & retaining wall is to be sited between
                         line            the dwelling and the street and observe a zero (0) metre
                                         setback.
                          Variation
                          required for   DCP Chapter 1 –
                          the height     Element 4.1 states the siting of a building (building lines)
                                         must be in accordance with Acceptable Solution A1.1
                                         which states:
                                             • Buildings are setback 6m from the boundary
                                                 fronting the street in zones R1, R3 and RU5.

                                         A Variation to this Requirement can be assessed by
                                         addressing Performance Criteria P1 as follows:

                                         Setbacks
                                         Topography of the land – the existing land steeply slopes
                                         downwards from the southern front boundary to the
                                         northern rear boundary.

                                         The slope has been calculated at approximately 37.5% or
                                         20.50.

                                         Relationship to adjoining properties –
                                         The proposed carport will observe a setback of
                                         approximately 7.5 m from the western boundary and 12.0
                                         m from the eastern boundary. There is also a vegetative
                                         buffer along the side boundaries which will assist in
                                         minimising the visual impact of the carport upon the
                                         adjoining properties.

                                         Locality that establishes the overall setting of the site
                                         Within the localised residential area existing dwellings have
                                         reduced building lines to Belvedere Drive.

                                         Character and scale of surrounding development –The
                                         surrounding development consists on the western side, of
                                         a excavated single storey dwelling which has been set
                                         down from the street level, whilst on the eastern side, is the
                                         rear yard of the dwelling that has frontage to Angela Place.
                                         The subject carport is considered will not have an adverse
                                         impact upon the existing streetscape.

                                         Existing landscaping along the side property boundaries is
                                         to be retained which will assist in minimising the
                                         impression of the carport from the street and adjoining
                                         properties.

                                         Solar Access – The carport observes a setback of
                                         4.0metres from the western boundary. It is considered


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                          37
                                                                                                     Report
 LISMORE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN

                      Complies       Comments
                      Yes/No
                                     solar access and privacy to the adjoining properties is not
                                     likely to be impacted by the proposed development.

                                     Compatibility of carport with the dwelling – The location
                                     of the carport will enable level access from the street.
                                     The owners who are approaching retirement age and have
                                     mobility issues requires them to have the carport and
                                     dwelling on one level. Notwithstanding current
                                     circumstances, the longevity of affording user friendly off-
                                     street carparking is maintained in perpetuity with the
                                     proposed construction and situ.

                                     Summary
                                     It is therefore considered that the Performance Criteria P1
                                     has been satisfied and it is recommended that the building
                                     line be varied to permit the erection of a carport with a
                                     reduced building line to 0.0metres to Belvedere Drive.

                                     Eave projection of Carport onto the Road Reserve
                                     The architectural plans show that due to the curvature of
                                     the southern boundary part of the eave of the carport will
                                     encroach over this boundary onto Council’s Road Reserve.

                                     Accordingly, a condition has been proposed to be applied
                                     to the Development Consent requiring the eave projection
                                     to be reduced, so as not to extend out over the road
                                     reserve.

                                     Prior to the issue of any Construction Certificate revised
                                     plans are to be submitted to Council demonstrating
                                     compliance with this requirement.

                                     Building Height, Bulk and Scale

                                     Element 4.1 states the height of a building must be in
                                     accordance with Acceptable Solution A4.1 which states:
                                        • Buildings comply with the building height controls
                                            specified in the Lismore Local Environmental Plan
                                            2012.

                                     Refer to Section under LLEP assessment for a variation to
                                     the building height of the proposed dwelling.

                                     It is recommended that the request to vary the
                                     Development Standard for the change to the building
                                     height be supported.

                                     In the light of this recommendation, the criteria under
                                     Performance P4 are addressed as follows:
                                      The development is of a height that will ensure:
                                      • Consistency with the prevailing height of other
                                        buildings in the vicinity.

                                       The dwelling when viewed from the street is of a single
                                       storey dwelling, but due to the steeply sloping nature of
                                       the allotment to maintain a level floor area, the height of

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                     38
                                                                                                     Report
 LISMORE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN

                      Complies       Comments
                      Yes/No
                                       the dwelling above natural ground increases as shown in
                                       the sketch below




                                      • Adequate daylight for habitable rooms and open
                                        space areas.

                                       The siting of the proposed dwelling on the allotment
                                       provides for an adequate level of lighting to the dwelling,
                                       with the living area, main and second bedrooms all
                                       having windows that face north. There is adequate open
                                       space on the allotment that faces north.

                                      • Minimal overshadowing and overlooking of
                                        adjoining premises.

                                       The siting of the dwelling will have minimal
                                       overshadowing of adjoining premises due to the
                                       setbacks of 4.0 metres to the west and 12.0 metres to
                                       the eastern boundaries.

                                       Due to the slope of the allotment and the elevated
                                       nature of the dwelling there will be some overlooking of
                                       adjoining premises. The existing vegetation adjacent to
                                       the side and rear property boundaries being maintained
                                       will assist in minimising this aspect of the dwelling and
                                       maintain a level of privacy to adjoining dwellings.

                                      • Compatibility with the local streetscape and
                                        character of the area;
                                        When viewed from Belvedere Drive the dwelling is of a
                                        single storey, which is considered compatible with other
                                        dwellings in the street which consist of both single and
                                        two storey dwellings.

                                       The walls of the dwelling are to be clad in grey
                                       corrugated steel sheeting and the roof will be grey
                                       colorbond sheeting.

                                     • The height is consistent with the height of adjoining
                                       residences, thereby reducing bulk and loss of
                                       residential amenity.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                     39
                                                                                                    Report
 LISMORE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN

                        Complies     Comments
                        Yes/No


                                       The proposed dwelling consists of a single storey, but
                                       due to the steeply sloping land the dwelling is elevated
                                       at the rear. Due to the increased setbacks from the side
                                       boundaries the height and bulk of the dwelling is unlikely
                                       to have an adverse impact upon the residential amenity
                                       of the adjoining properties.

                                     Summary
                                     It is therefore considered that the Performance Criteria P4
                                     has been satisfied and it is recommended that the building
                                     height be varied to permit the erection of the dwelling.

 4.2 - Element –                     The proposed dwelling is elevated above existing ground
 Visual Privacy                      level and the setbacks of the dwelling and decks to the
                                     side and rear boundaries complies with the requirements
                                     of Clause A5.4 for ensuring visual privacy is maintained.
                                     However, as the elevation of the deck may be looking
                                     down onto adjoining premises, it may have an impact upon
                                     the amenity and privacy to the occupants of this property.
                                     To ameliorate any likely impacts, it is considered
                                     appropriate for privacy screens to be constructed along
                                     both the western & eastern elevations elevation of the
                                     deck.
                                     A specific condition is to be imposed on the Development
                                     Consent.
 4.3 – Element -        Complies
 Acoustic Privacy
 4.4 – Element - Open   Complies     To assist in minimising possible visual impact of the
 Space and                           subfloor area of the elevated dwelling, it is considered
 Landscaping                         appropriate to require the following:
                                         • Provide a screen consisting of either lattice or
                                             vertical or horizontal boards to the section of the
                                             western elevation adjacent to the rainwater
                                             storage tank. This screen should have a height of
                                             2.0metres.
                                         • Provide a suitable a biological visual / landscape
                                             buffer to be planted along the eastern and western
                                             elevations of the dwelling to assist in minimising
                                             any visual impacts upon adjoining properties and
                                             when viewed from the street. The buffer is to
                                             consist of native trees and shrubs chosen from the
                                             native species list contained in Part 3 of Council’s
                                             Tree Preservation Order.
                                     Specific conditions are to be imposed on the Development
                                     Consent.
 4.5 – Element          Complies
 Earthworks,
 Retaining Walls and
 Erosion Controls
 4.6 – Element – Off    Complies
 street Car Parking,
 Carports, Garages,
 Outbuildings and
 Driveways

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                    40
                                                                                                        Report
 LISMORE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN

                        Complies          Comments
                        Yes/No
 4.7 – Element -        Complies
 Fences and Walls
 4.8 – Element -         Complies
 Service Areas
 4.9 – Element           Complies
 Orientation, Glazing
 and Shade Control
 4.10 – Element –        Not applicable
 Onsite Sewage and
 Waste Water
 Management System
 Flood Prone Lands
  Development            Not applicable
 Controls (Floodway,
 High Flood Risk,
 Flood Fringe and
 Low Flood Risk).
 Buffers
 Conflicts in Land       Not applicable   In accordance with this clause, the proposed development
 Uses                                     has demonstrated it is compatible with specified land uses
                                          in the locality and with surrounding established
                                          development.
 Heritage Conservation
 Heritage Principles     Not applicable
 Tree Preservation Order
 Land to which the       Yes
 TPO Order applies
 Tree Removal                             Council’s Tree Preservation Officer has given approval for
 requiring Consent                        the removal of the following trees, subject to a minimum of
 from Council                             4 trees being planted within 6 months of removal to
                                          compensate for loss of amenity. A condition has been
                                          imposed on the Development Consent.
                                            Tree      Name:        Size Not        Suitable
                                            #       Botanical /          suitable
                                                     Common
                                            1      Guava /         S     1N
                                                   Psidium
                                                   guajava
                                            2      Chinese         S     1K
                                                   celtis /
                                                   Celtis
                                                   sinensis
                                            3      Macaranga S           1I
                                                   /
                                                   Macaranga
                                                   tanarius –
                                                   (clumping)
                                            4      Macaranga S           1L
                                                   /
                                                   Macaranga
                                                   tanarius -
                                                   (clumping)
                                            Tree #                    Comments
                                            1         Fruit tree (exempt from Vegetation
                                                      Protection (VP) on eastern side.
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                        41
                                                                                                  Report
  LISMORE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN

                        Complies        Comments
                        Yes/No
                                          2       Weed species (exempt from VP)
                                                  between trees 3 & 4.
                                          3       Poor condition / dying and dead,
                                                  sections have been removed. Towards
                                                  front of property
                                          4       Only small at present and readily
                                                  replaceable. (known as a pioneer
                                                  species – meaning they are generally
                                                  not long-lived species)
  Waste Minimisation
  Relationship with     Yes
  Legislation
  Handling Waste        Complies        A condition has been imposed to ensure any waste
                                        materials are disposed of at a licensed waste facility.

Section 7.11 Contributions Plan
Not Relevant to this application.

Applicable Regulations
The application was lodged and assessed in accordance with the Regulations.

The Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 Clause 61(1) requires that Council take
into consideration AS 2601-1991: the demolition of structures, as in force at 1 July 1993. No demolition is
proposed to occur on the site.

Relevant Council Policies
The proposal has been assessed against the relevant Council policies and is considered to comply with
these provisions.

Design
The design is generally deemed to be of a character that is compatible with the surrounding residential
area.

Materials
The materials proposed to be used will commonly be compatible with the surrounding residential area.

Amenity
The proposal is appropriate for the locality and will be of minimal detrimental impact upon the adjoining
land uses or the amenity of the area.

Roads Act Approvals
The proposal requires works within the public road reserve, and as such, a permit under the provisions of
Section138 of the Roads Act 1993 must be obtained prior to those works being undertaken. This
requirement is addressed in relevant draft conditions of consent.

Local Government Act Approvals
The proposal requires approval under the provisions of s.68 of the Local Government Act 1993 for the
disposal of stormwater, the supply of water and sewerage, which must be obtained prior to those works
being undertaken. This requirement is addressed in relevant conditions of consent.

All Likely Impacts of the Development
All likely impacts of the proposed development have been considered within the context of this report.
 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                   42
                                                                                                  Report
ENVIRONMENTAL APPRAISAL                                            CONSIDERED
1. Statutory Controls                                                     Yes
2. Policy Controls                                                        Yes
3. Design in relation to existing building and natural environment        Yes
4. Landscaping/Open Space Provision                                       Yes
5. Traffic generation and Carparking provision                            Yes
6. Loading and Servicing facilities                                       Yes
7. Physical relationship to and impact upon adjoining development
    (Views, privacy, overshadowing, etc.)                                 Yes
8. Site Management Issues                                                 Yes
9. ESD Principles and Climate Change                                      Yes
10. All relevant 4.15 considerations of Environmental Planning            Yes
    and Assessment (Amendment) Act 1979.

Comments
Finance
Not required for this matter.

Other staff comments
Relevant professional staff including NSW Rural Fire Service have been consulted and their comments
incorporated into this assessment report.


Public consultation
The development application was notified to adjoining landowners in accordance with Council’s
Community Engagement Strategy and Participation Plan. One (1) submission was received (see
Attachment 3). The matters raised in submission has been addressed in the body of this report.

Alternative Determination Options
As detailed in the conclusion of this report, the proposed development proposal is recommended to be
approved subject to the draft conditions of approval. However, Councilors may form a different view of the
impacts of the proposed application and what is considered as ‘in the public interest’. Should the
Councillors form a different perspective, the following alternative option has been provided for
consideration.

The Council may determine to refuse the application, of which the reasons for the refusal may be:

1. Council is not satisfied that the proposed cl 4.6 variation demonstrates that the development standard
is properly satisfied, because:

   a)   The application has not demonstrated that strict compliance with the provisions of clause 4.3(2) of
        the Lismore Local Environmental Plan 2012 is unreasonable or unnecessary.
   b)   The application has not demonstrated there are sufficient environmental planning grounds to justify
        contravening the development standard
   c)   The application has not demonstrated that the objectives of the standard have been met.
   d)   The application has not demonstrated that the Local Environmental planning objectives for the
        zone have been met.
   e)   The granting of consent would not be in the public interest in accordance with the provisions of
        s4.15(1)(e) of the Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                    43
                                                                                                 Report
Conclusion
The proposal for a two (2) bedroom dwelling seeks a variation to the Lismore Local Environmental Plan
2012 of more than 10% to Clause 4.3(2) being the height of the dwelling will exceed the height on the
Height of Buildings Map. The bulk and scale of the premises is somewhat reduced with a smaller footprint
that the average house, which reduces the impact of variance in this merit-based assessment.

In accordance with Clause 4.6, the applicant has demonstrated that in these circumstances, compliance
with the development standard is “unreasonable or unnecessary” and that “there is sufficient
environmental planning grounds to justify contravening the development standard”.

The Lismore Local Environmental Plan variation is supported with a recommendation of approval, having
consideration to the numerous articulated supporting factors, including it is not conducive to require the
dwelling to be repositioned further down the allotment as this would prevent level access being provided
to the dwelling from the street.

The design is an environmentally conscious outcome to reduce the disturbance of the existing slope and
concurrently embellish the land management of what is currently an unmaintained vacant non developed
site, which can now be better controlled.

 The proposed dwelling is generally compliant and is considered to meet all relevant planning controls and
is in the public interest.

Draft conditions have been included as an attachment to this report.

Attachment/s
 1.⇩    Draft Conditions of Consent
 2.⇩    Architectural Plans
 3.⇩    Public Submission




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6
 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                                  44
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         45
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         46
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         47
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         48
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         49
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         50
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         51
Draft Conditions of Consent                                                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         52
Architectural Plans                                                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore          53
Architectural Plans                                                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore          54
Architectural Plans                                                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore          55
Architectural Plans                                                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore          56
Architectural Plans                                                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore          57
Architectural Plans                                                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere Drive, East Lismore          58
Public Submission                                                                 Attachment 3




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         59
Public Submission                                                                 Attachment 3




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - DA5.2021.562.1 Erection of a Dwelling at 6 Belvedere
Drive, East Lismore
                                                                                         60
                                                                                                 Reports
Report
 Subject                 Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
                         2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
 TRIM Record No          BP22/236:EF21/264

 Prepared by             Manager Finance

 Reason

 Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

 Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

 Action                  Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
The Local Government Act 1993 requires Council to revise its delivery program and prepare an
operational plan every year.

The operational plan must include projects and activities to be undertaken during the year, a detailed
budget, revenue policy for rates, annual charges and fees & charges, and any proposed borrowings. To
meet requirements, a draft Imagine Lismore Operational Plan 2022/23 has been prepared.


Recommendation
 That the draft Imagine Lismore Operational Plan 2022/23 be placed on public exhibition for 28 days
 and any submissions reported to Council for consideration prior to adoption.


Background
The Local Government Act 1993 requires a council to prepare a long-term community strategic plan, a
four-year delivery program and annual operational plan.

The Imagine Lismore Community Strategic Plan 2017-2027 was adopted by Council in 2017. It
represents the Council and the community’s shared vision for the Lismore local government area and
sets clear objectives and strategies to meet this vision.

The revised Imagine Lismore Delivery Program 2017-2021 was adopted by Council in 2019. It sets out
the projects and activities to be undertaken by Council during this period to achieve the strategies. The
Delivery Program is reviewed each year.

Finalisation of a revised Community Strategic Plan and Delivery Program have been impacted by the
recent natural disasters and will be shared with Council in the coming weeks. These plans were largely
developed prior to the natural disaster events, and will continue to be revised to reflect our recovery
journey.

The operational plan is a sub-set of the delivery program and sets out projects and activities to be
undertaken that year and includes the annual budget, revenue policy for rates, annual charges, and fees
and charges, and proposed borrowings.

 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                                    61
                                                                                                    Reports
Budget Context
Council’s financial position remains challenging. Council’s revenue base is insufficient to maintain its
current asset base and to deliver target service levels (without a change in priorities), which results in
limited capacity to address asset maintenance backlogs (including road improvements) and deliver
discretionary services and activities such as tourism and economic development initiatives.

This change in focus is imperative.

The 2022/23 Budget has been prepared with five (5) key objectives in focus:

    1.    Community
    2.    Economic development
    3.    Fiscal discipline
    4.    Business as Usual within the financial capacity of Council

    With the core focus being:
    5. Asset – renewal and maintenance

In addition, Council will face a series of decisions to address long term financial sustainability, including:

   •     The need to focus on Council’s core asset base, limiting investment in non-core activities where
         possible,
   •     Continual focus on the commercial viability, efficiency, and financial performance of Council’s
         commercial enterprises,
   •     Potential divestment of non-core assets that represent a drain on Council’s current financial
         position, and
   •     Renewed discipline in investment decisions to contemplate long-term cost to Council of grant-
         funded works.

Draft Operational Plan – 2022/23
Based on the requirements of the Local Government Act 1993, the draft Imagine Lismore Operational Plan
2022/2023 has been prepared. The key components of the Plan are: -

   1.    Operational Plan activities to be undertaken during 2022/23.
   2.    Budget
   3.    Revenue Policy for rates, annual charges, and fees & charges; and
   4.    Proposed borrowings.

Information and commentary on the following key aspects of the Plan are included in this report: -

   1.    2022/23 Budget
   2.    Rates and Annual Charges
   3.    Fees & Charges
   4.    Borrowings
   5.    Acquisition of Assets
   6.    Other Matters




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                                       62
                                                                                               Reports
1. 2021/22 Budget
The 2022/23 budget has been developed using a top-down approach, concentrating on core business
only.

The five (5) key pillars:




The 2022/23 budget is a back-to-basics budget and bringing the cost of the business under control and in
line with revenues. Budget targets have been set by management and are in line with Council’s overall
strategic priorities.

The Budget is a consolidation of three separate funds being General, Wastewater and Water Funds. While
General Fund revenues can be applied to any purpose allowed by the Local Government Act 1993,
revenues collected in Wastewater and Water Funds must be expended for the purpose it is collected. As
such, the budget information is reported for all funds separately, as well as a consolidated (all council)
position.

The key highlights of the budget are:




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                                  63
                                                                                                   Reports
In summary, the key financial results and information for the Budget are: -




With regards to the Operating Results and Cash Position reported above, all have specific value and
require due consideration by Council: -

    • Net Operating Result for the Year – This reflects the budgeted financial performance of the
    Council for the financial year. As it includes capital grants and contributions revenues for capital works
    which are not expensed in the result, the Net Operating Result for the Year before Capital Grants &
    Contributions is considered to better reflect financial performance.

    From a financial sustainability perspective, it is essential that the Net Operating Result for the Year is
    a surplus.

    •  Net Operating Result for the Year before Capital Grants & Contributions – This is
    considered the better measure of financial performance as it matches more accurately resources
    generated in recurrent operations against resources used in recurrent operations. There are some
    minor exceptions to this such as for operating expenses being funded from reserves or unexpended
    grants.

    From a financial sustainability perspective, it is essential that the Net Operating Result for the Year
    before Capital Grants & Contributions is a surplus.

    A consolidated deficit result is anticipated. Deficit results are anticipated in all funds. As ongoing
    deficits are not financially sustainable, the review of the Long-Term Financial Plan to commence
    shortly will have an objective to achieve surplus operating results.

    •   Cash Position – This simply reflects the financial results from a cash perspective.

    It is essential that a surplus cash position is achieved in the General Fund. This provides Council with
    greater flexibility to financially manage unplanned events or exceptional circumstance that always
    arise during the year, instead of considering changes to the adopted budget during the year when
    options and time to implement solutions are limited and not always optimal.

    For 2022/23, a cash surplus of $585,100 is budgeted. Management will continue to explore cash
    saving measures to return a surplus result.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                                      64
                                                                            Reports
      •   Key Performance Indicators Financial– Consolidated




      •   Key Performance Indicators Assets– Consolidated




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                             65
                                                                                            Reports
The Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, Summary by Program and Key
Performance Indicators for the draft 2022/23 Budget are attached.

2. Rates and Annual Charges
The following is a summary of the proposed changes to the rates and major annual charges included into
the Plan: -

General Rates
The Budget has been prepared applying a 0.0% increase. For the average urban residential ratepayer,
the general rates will not increase from $1,300.




Waste Management Services

There is no increased in charges

The key charges include: -

                                             Proposed
  Service                                     Charge
  Integrated Waste Collection Service    $      327.30
  Rural Collection Service – Charge      $      409.40
  Business Collection Urban Service      $      434.20
  Business Collection Rural Service      $      405.25
  Nimbin Transfer Station – Charge       $      157.80
  Waste Minimisation –Charge             $       65.00

Wastewater Charges

There is no increased in charges

For 2022/23, the proposed charge is $977.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                               66
                                                                                               Reports
The following is a summary of the proposed charges: -

  Wastewater Charges:                                   2022/23
  For single unit dwelling houses                             $977.00

  For residential flats for each unit of occupancy             $683.90

  For non-domestic properties (excluding properties
  within the established strength category), per               $977.00
  equivalent tenement


  For properties not connected to a sewerage
  scheme and able to do so and located within 75               $586.20
  metres of a Council sewer

  North Woodburn – Connection Charge (Existing
                                                               $476.04
  Properties Only)
  Sewer Rebate 1                                               $293.10
  Sewer Rebate 2                                               $488.50

Average Residential rates including charges.




Stormwater Management Services Charges:

The Stormwater Management Services charge is applied to rateable land within the Lismore urban area.
There are exemptions to the charge with vacant and crown land (including Department of Housing) most
prominent.

For residential lots the charge will be $25.00. For residential strata and company titled land, the charge
will be $12.50 per unit

  Stormwater Management Services                                         Budget
  Stormwater Infrastructure -                                             $153,000

  (enhancing current infrastructure and constructing new
  treatment infrastructure)

  Infrastructure services (new treatments) – repayments

                                                                           $30,000

  Maintenance and monitoring of treatment devices                          $80,600

  Business, staff, and community education                                 $15,000

 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                                  67
                                                                                                 Reports
  Information gathering / administration                                     $91,300

  Totals                                                                   $369,900

Water Charges
For 2022/23, it is proposed to increase consumption charges to $4.56 per kilolitre from $4.44 per kilolitre,
and the base service availability charge to $334.83 per annum from $325.92per annum. This is a 2.78%
increase and is driven by the increase in charges from Rous County Council. Rous County Council has
applied a 6.98% increase in supply charges to Lismore City Council:

A summary of water charges follows: -

  Water Charges                           2021/22                       2022/23
  Consumption Charge                  $4.44 per kilolitre           $4.56 per kilolitre
  20mm service                                       $325.92                      $334.83
  25mm service                                       $509.24                      $523.16
  32mm service                                       $834.32                      $857.13
  40mm service                                    $1,303.64                    $1,339.28
  50mm service                                    $2,036.92                    $2,092.61
  65mm service                                    $3,442.40                    $3,536.52
  80mm service                                    $5,514.52                    $5,357.10
  100mm service                                   $8,147.68                    $8,370.46
  150mm service                                  $18,332.28                   $18,833.54
  Unconnected Properties                             $325.92                      $334.83
  Fire Service                                       $325.92                      $334.83
  Water Rebate Service                               $162.96                      $167.42

Summary
More information on all rates and annual charges is provided in the Revenue Policy & Borrowings
attachment.

3. Fees & Charges
The draft 2022/23 Fees & Charges have been prepared in accordance with Council’s policy 1.5.9 Pricing
Policy – Fees & Charges.

Council is proposing a 0.0% increase in general fees and charges, excluding Commercial Operations,
Statutory Charges and Water Charges.

A full copy of the draft 2022/23 Fees & Charges is attached.

4. Borrowings
Council is required to submit a program of new borrowings seeking approval from the Office of Local
Government on an annual basis.

Council does not propose to borrow for 2022/23.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                                    68
                                                                                                   Reports
5. Acquisition of Assets
A total of $ $51.9 million in acquisition of assets are included in the draft 2022/23 Budget.

The acquisition of assets total $33.262 million, $9.016 million and $9.609 million for General, Wastewater
and Water Funds respectively.

A full schedule of works is included in the Attachment: 2.Budget

6. Other Matters
The following are additional items or information provided to assist Council in its determination: -

Natural Disaster 2022
Council has suffered a catastrophic disaster in February/March 2022 which has significantly impacted the
community and has also caused major damage to most Council’s assets.

Once the event can be quantified and the support that will be available from various Government Agencies
confirmed, the budget will be amended to reflect these outcomes.

Long Term Financial Plan
The Long-Term Financial Plan (LTFP) is a 10-year financial plan with a key objective to provide the road
map to long-term financial sustainability. It is to be reviewed annually. This review will commence once
the 2022/23 Budget is on public exhibition.

Comments
Finance
Comments have been incorporated into the body of this report.

Public consultation
The draft Operational Plan 2022/23 will be placed on public exhibition for 28 days from 13 May 2022 to
10 June 2022.

Submissions received will be reported to Council’s 14 June 2022 meeting for consideration.

Conclusion
Council’s financial position remains challenging. Council’s revenue base and spending priorities are
insufficient to maintain its current asset base and to deliver target service levels, which results in limited
capacity to address asset maintenance backlogs (including road improvements) and deliver discretionary
services and activities such as tourism and economic development initiatives.

The recent natural disaster has caused significant damage to Council’s assets and infrastructure not
mention the devastation caused to the community as a whole. Once the event can be quantified and the
support that will be available from various Government Agencies confirmed, the budget will be amended
to reflect these outcomes.

The 2022/23 budgets is the first step in Council reprioritising its commitment to the maintenance and
renewal of its large infrastructure base.

Further action will be required by Council to address the long-term sustainability of Council whilst
addressing its infrastructure issue and delivery the levels of service expected by the community.


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
 2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                                                       69
                                                                            Reports
Attachment/s
1.⇨    Draft 2022/23 Fees and Charges      (Over 7 pages)
2.⇨    Budget by Program 2022/23           (Over 7 pages)
3.⇨    Revenue Policy & Borrowings 2022/23 (Over 7 pages)




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Public exhibition of the Draft Imagine Lismore
2022/23 Operational Plan and Budget
                                                                             70
                                                                                                Report
Report
 Subject                Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges -
                        Richmond Tweed Regional Library
 TRIM Record No         BP22/268:EF21/267

 Prepared by            Management Accountant

 Reason                 Draft Budget and Fees and Charges required to be adopted by Executive
                        Council
 Strategic Theme        Leadership and participation

 Strategy               We provide effective management and responsible governance.

 Action                 Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
Lismore City Council is the Executive Council for Richmond Tweed Regional Library (RTRL).

As Executive Council Lismore City Council is responsible for preparing and adopting the budget and Fees
& Charges for RTRL.

The 2022/23 draft Budget and Fees & Charges have been endorsed by the Senior Leadership Group
and the RTRL Committee. Member Councils were formally notified in late April 2022 and have not yet
endorsed the 2022/23 budget.

Lismore City Council is only required to report its interest in RTRL (recognised as an associate) in its
budget.


Recommendation
 That Council adopt the 2022/23 draft Budget and Fees & Charges for Richmond Tweed Regional
 Library.


Background
Lismore City Council is the Executive Council for Richmond Tweed Regional Library (RTRL). In its
capacity as Executive Council, Lismore City Council is responsible for preparing and adopting the budget
and Fees & Charges for RTRL. The 2022/23 draft Budget and Fees & Charges document has been
prepared. The document has been endorsed by the Senior Leadership Group (SLG) at its meeting on 8
April 2022 and also endorsed by the RTRL committee at its meeting held 22 April 2022. (See copy of
report attached).

The Deed of Agreement requires the proposed RTRL Annual Budget to be endorsed by the RTRL
committee, each Member Council and the SLG prior to being submitted to the Executive Council for
adoption. Endorsement has not been received from the member councils at the time of writing the report
as a result of the March 2022 RTRL committee meeting being rescheduled to April 2022 due to major
flooding, not allowing formal notification to member councils to take place until late April 2022.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges -
 Richmond Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                                 71
                                                                                                    Report
However, the deed of agreement also requires the Executive Council to use all reasonable endeavours
to ensure that the RTRL annual Budget is adopted by not later than 30 June in each year. To comply
with this clause of the deed, the budget is being presented to Council for adoption.

The report is showing an increase in cash contributions from 2021/22 of $572,400 but a real increase of
$22,700. This is due to the 2021/22 contributions being part funded from reserves to assist councils
during the COVID-19 shut down periods.

Lismore City Council is only required to report its interest in RTRL (recognised as an associate) in its
budget.

Member councils can reduce the contribution that they make to RTRL from the amount in the draft
budget. If a member council contributes less than the required Member Council Contributions to RTRL,
service levels for that Member Council will need to be reduced. Any adjustments would be reported as
part of the September 2022 Quarterly Budget Review.

At this time, Lismore City Council has prepared its draft 2022/23 budget including the same contribution
as 2021/22. This will require an adjustment to service levels at Lismore Libraries in 2022/23.

Comments
Finance
Contained within the report.

Conclusion
The 2022/23 RTRL Budget and Fees & Charges document has been prepared and is now presented to
council for adoption as required by the Deed of Agreement.

Attachment/s
 1.⇩    RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges -
 Richmond Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                                     72
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       73
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       74
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       75
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       76
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       77
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       78
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       79
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       80
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond Tweed Regional Library          81
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                  Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond
Tweed Regional Library
                                                                                       82
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond Tweed Regional Library          83
RTRL - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges                                                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft 2022/23 Budget and Fees & Charges - Richmond Tweed Regional Library          84
                                                                                                     Report
Report
 Subject                 Draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan
 TRIM Record No          BP21/516:EF21/12-2

 Prepared by             Community Engagement Coordinator

 Reason                  To seek Council's apprpoval to place the Draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan
                         on public exhibition.
 Strategic Theme         An inclusive and healthy community

 Strategy                Our community is a desirable place to live, an easy place to work and a
                         welcoming place to visit.
 Action                  Promote positive attitudes and behaviours toward people with disability.



Executive Summary
The Disability Inclusion Act 2014 requires all NSW Government agencies and councils to develop
Disability Action Inclusion Plans that will ensure their services, infrastructure and community facilities
are more accessible to people with disability.

The DIAP is Council's way of defining how the organisation will make targeted and continual effort to
reduce the barriers that people face when living, working and visiting the Lismore LGA. It documents
the steps Council will take in working towards access and inclusion for all.

Local Council DIAP renewals are due July 2022.


Recommendation
 That the:
    1. attached draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan 2022-2026 be endorsed for public exhibition.
    2. draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan 2022-2026 be reported back to Council for final adoption,
       following the closure of the exhibition period


Background
The Disability Inclusion Regulation 2014 sets out the dates by which public authorities must complete
DIAPs, submit to the Disability Council and make publicly available.

The DIAP is a four-year plan that defines how the Council will make targeted and continual effort to
reduce the barriers that people face when living, working and visiting the Lismore LGA. It documents the
steps Council will take in working towards access and inclusion for all.

Extensive consultation was undertaken for the Lismore City Council’s Disability Inclusion Action Plan
(DIAP) in 2021 and the DIAP was prepared over the period of December 2021 – February 2022. The
release of the final draft was then delayed by the floods that occurred in February and March 2022.

Whilst required by statute to adopt a DIAP by July 2022, Council recognises the impact of the February
and March 2022 flood events on our community are significant and may impact this plan. Council notes
there is insufficient time to undertake a new consultation process and prepare a new Plan to reflect this


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan                                    85
                                                                                                Report
impact. Further consultation will take place during the course of recovery planning, and this document
will be updated accordingly.

Public consultation
The report will be placed on Council’s website as well as the Your Say Lismore Engagement portal for
community access.

Attachment/s
 1.⇨     Draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan 2022-2026 (Over 7 pages)




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Disability Inclusion Action Plan                               86
                                                                                           Reports
Report
Subject               March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review Statement
TRIM Record No        BP22/224:EF09/580-03

Prepared by           Principal Accountant

Reason                In accordance with Clause 203, Local Government (General) Regulations,
                      Council approval is required to amend the 2021/22 Budget to reflect the actual
                      or anticipated result
Strategic Theme       Leadership and participation

Strategy              We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                              87
                                                                                                    Reports
Executive Summary
Storms and Floods 2022
Lismore LGA was hit by catastrophic floods and storms across February, March and April 2022.
Extensive damage was sustained by Council assets including roads, properties, parks, sporting
facilities, waste facility, airport and Lismore Memorial Baths. In addition, losses were suffered by
Council staff, suppliers, tenants and contractors and Council facilities were closed due to staff
shortages, change of use (such as the evacuation centre at GSAC) and damage to facilities.

The forecast consolidated financial results and cash position reported in the QBRS are:

    • Net Operating Result for the Year – Surplus                                              $22,476,400
    • Net Operating Result for the Year before Capital Grants & Contributions –
    Deficit                                                                                   ($14,712,900)
    • Funding Sources (Consolidated) & Cash Position – Surplus                                   $5,231,900

Major Movements on the Operating Result:
Unfunded Adjustments

The main movements are summarised as follows:
                                        Movement                                                Amount
    Reduction in User Fees & Charges                                                             ($493,500)
    Reduction in Other Revenues                                                                ($1,179,900)
    Reduction in Employee Benefits & On-costs                                                    $1,210,000
    Reduction in Materials & Contracts                                                           $4,925,600

    Total unfunded movements (not all listed above)                                              $5,133,700

•     Overall the unfunded (cash) position is improving by $5,133,700. It is recommended that the $5 million
      is transferred to reserve to assist in the flood recovery and to asset maintenance and renewal.
•     Unfunded user fees including; parking, quarry product, airport landing and DA fees have reduced by
      a total of ($493,500). More than half of this is parking and the balance is predominately due to the
      floods.
•     Reductions in other revenues include; tourism and events revenues, commercial rents and waste
      disposal fees. The overall reduction of ($1,179,900) includes a decrease of ($4 million) for a grant to
      dispose of contaminated organics waste disposal (there is corresponding reduction in materials and
      contracts). If the organics disposal was removed then there would be an overall increase in other
      revenues, mostly coming from waste fire insurance proceeds of $2,689,800.
•     Employee benefits and on-costs have decreased substantially. The $1,210,000 savings represents
      unused salary and wages costs across organisation due to vacant positions, reduced events and
      projects as a result of COVID restrictions and floods.
•     Materials & contracts costs have also reduced substantially. While costs relating to the flood recovery
      effort have been factored in, it is anticipated that many of these will be funded by grants or insurance
      so activities that have been deferred have returned funds to the budget. The total $4,925,600 budget
      reduction includes the waste fire re-categorisation mentioned above.
The total unfunded amounts improve the budget from a surplus of $98,200 to a surplus of $5,231,900.

Funded Adjustments
Funded adjustments do not impact council’s general cash, they are funded through reserves, reduced
expenses, grants and unexpended loans. More detail is included in the March QBRS attachment.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                       88
                                                                                                 Reports
The main movements are as follows:

                                       Movement                                              Amount
    Increase in Other Revenues                                                                $2,209,700
    Increase in Grants & Contributions - Operating                                            $3,640,000
    Decrease in Grants & Contributions - Capital                                            ($3,095,000)
    Increase in Materials & Contracts                                                       ($5,979,900)


•     The increase in other revenues of $2,209,700 is mostly from insurance proceeds $2.1 million.
•     The increase in operational grants of $3,640,000 includes $1.772 million flood and natural disaster
      grants and $1.768 million for sewer and water operations. These represent a redirection of focus from
      capital works activities to flood recovery.
•     The decrease in capital grants of ($3,095,000) is a mostly a reduction of ($3,500,000) in
      Oakes/Crozier funding that has been postponed due to flood recovery activities. There are some
      offsets to this reduction, detailed in the attached report.
•     The funded increase in materials and contracts of ($5,979,900) represents state, federal and
      insurance funding of flood recovery works net of some cost savings due to postponed works.

Major Movements – Capital:
    Capital Movement                                                                         Amount

    Roads capita works                                                                       $12,684,900
    Water                                                                                     $1,464,900
    Wastewater                                                                                $1,047,800

There are a number of activities that have been postponed until next financial year, or even a later
financial year due to the catastrophic floods and storms that occurred in the first few months of 2022.
Council resources have been redirected to flood recovery and, as such, capital projects have bee
delayed.

Commentary on all recommended changes is included in the March 2022 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement.

Key Performance Indicators (KPI)
Of the seven KPIs included in the March quarterly report, 3 are unfavourable compared to benchmarks.

Operating Performance Ratio – The unfavourable variance for the current year is due mainly to the
increase in depreciation expense as a result of the revaluation of roads assets in the 2019/20 financial
year. This ratio has improved sharply from December 2021 and the original forecast for the 2021/22 year
due to major deferrals of expenditure as a result of the flood and storms in February and March 2022.

Own Source Operating Ratio –The ratio is estimated to be 58.6% which is below the benchmark of 60%.
Council's financial flexibility improves the higher the level of its own source of revenue.

Building & Infrastructure Renewals Ratio – more work is required to address this issue. The impact of
natural disasters is not possible to quantify at this time.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                     89
                                                                                                     Reports
Long Term Financial Plan – Remediation
While Council’s financial position as at 30 June 2022 is anticipated to be satisfactory, having regards to
the adopted 2021/22 Operational Plan, there are indicators that require immediate attention to ensure
long-term financial sustainability.

The Net Operating Result for the Year before Capital Grants & Contributions – Deficit of ($14,712,900),
together with the unfavourable Building & Infrastructure Renewals Ratio and Asset Maintenance ratio
indicates that Council is not adequately addressing its assets. This is considered not financially
sustainable, and Council will need to take steps to address these issues when developing its 2022/23
Operational Plan and its Long-Term Financial Plan.


Recommendation
 That
     1. Council adopt the attached March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review Statement.
     2. $5 million be transferred to reserves to address:
           •   Funding the reinstatement off assets impacted by the 2022 floods that are not covered by
               grants or insurance
           •   Providing additional funds for asset renewal and maintenance
           •   Ensure adequate cashflow to enable Council to progress immediate reinstatement of
               assets while waiting for promised grant funds and insurance.


Background
The Local Government (General) Regulation 2005 requires the annual budget to be monitored on an
ongoing basis and a quarterly budget review statement prepared and reported to Council. The content is
mandated by the NSW Office of Local Government.

The March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review Statement (QBRS) includes the recommended changes to the
budget for the year-ended 30 June 2022. To meet financial reporting purposes, the QBRS has been
prepared on a consolidated basis with internal transactions eliminated.

Only variations that can be reliably quantified or where there is substantial risk in meeting budget
expectations have been reported.

For clarity, where an amount is ‘favourable’ to Council’s financial result for the year or financial position as
at 30 June, it will be shown as un-bracketed. Where an amount is ‘unfavourable’ to Council’s financial
result for the year or financial position as at 30 June, it will be shown as (bracketed).

March 2022 QBRS – Consolidated Summary
Financial Results
                                                                           Recommended
                                            Adopted                          Changes
                                                            Approved                          Revised 2021/22
                 Item                       2021/22                         March 2022
                                                            Variations                            Budget
                                            Budget                             QBRS


 Net Operating Result for the Year        $16,502,000       $3,865,200        $2,110,900        $22,476,400


 Net Operating Result for the Year
 before Capital Grants &                 ($19,428,000)      ($449,700)        $5,164,800      ($14,712,900)
 Contributions


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
 Statement
                                                                                                        90
                                                                                                     Reports
 Funding Sources (Consolidated) &
 Cash Position – Surplus                  ($417,000)        $516,200        $5,133,700           $5,231,900


The Net Operating Result for the Year before Capital Grants & Contributions is considered the more
appropriate result as it excludes income received for capital purposes and therefore not matched by a
related expense.

For the above results, a deficit means Council is using more resources (including depreciation) than it is
generating in income, and a surplus means Council is generating more income than resources used. An
ongoing deficit result is not financially sustainable.

The cash position forecast has improved significantly however this is largely due to postponed activities
and anticipated funding for flood and storm recovery activities.

Key Performance indicators
 Ratio                                                  Commentary
 1. Operating Performance Ratio                         This ratio measures the achievement of containing
                                                        operating expenses within operating revenue. Net
                                                        operating result from continuing operations
                                                        (excluding capital items) as a percentage of operating
                                                        revenue (excluding capital items).

                                                        Consolidated:
                                                        Benchmark is greater than (0)
                                                        March 2022 – Unfavourable.

                                                        This ratio has improved sharply from December 2021
                                                        and the original forecast for the 2021/22 year due to
                                                        major deferrals of expenditure as a result of the flood
                                                        and storms in February and March 2022.



 2. Own Source Operating Revenue Ratio                  This ratio measures Council's fiscal flexibility by
                                                        reporting Council's reliance on external funding
                                                        sources such as operating grants and contributions.

                                                        Council's financial flexibility improves the higher the
                                                        level of its own source of revenue.

                                                        Consolidated:
                                                        Benchmark is greater than 60%
                                                        March 2022 – Unfavourable

                                                        This ratio has remained unchanged for the March
                                                        2022 quarter. While the overall budget changes
                                                        caused by natural disasters are significant, the
                                                        proportional spend of “own” income compared to
                                                        grant funding remains the same.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
 Statement
                                                                                                         91
                                                                                                  Reports
Ratio                                                Commentary
3. Unrestricted current ratio                        The 'unrestricted current ratio' represents a council's
                                                     ability to meet short-term obligations as they fall due.

                                                     Restrictions placed on various funding sources (e.g.,
                                                     Section 7.11 developer contributions) exclude these
                                                     funds from being used in day-to-day operations.

                                                     Consolidated:
                                                     Benchmark is greater than 1.5x
                                                     March 2022 – Favourable

                                                     The ratio has improved from 1.45 to 2.67 and is now
                                                     above benchmark levels. Council has undertaken
                                                     considerable work during the financial year to
                                                     increase its short-term liquid assets (internally
                                                     restricted cash). Postponement of planned activities
                                                     to focus on flood recovery works has assisted with
                                                     this improvement also.

4. Debt Service Cover Ratio                          This ratio measures the availability of operating cash
                                                     to service debt including interest, principal and lease
                                                     payments.

                                                     Consolidated:
                                                     Benchmark is greater than 2.
                                                     March 2022 – Favourable.




5. Rates, Annual Charges, Interest & Extra Charges   This indicator assesses the impact of uncollected
Outstanding Percentage                               rates and annual charges on liquidity and the
                                                     adequacy of recovery efforts. This percentage is
                                                     based on the amount outstanding as a percentage of
                                                     the amount to be collected for rates and annual
                                                     charges for the current year and outstanding from
                                                     previous years.

                                                     The percentage will decline as the financial year
                                                     proceeds and rates instalments are due and paid.

                                                     Consolidated:
                                                     Benchmark is less than 10%.
                                                     March 2022 – Favourable




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                     92
                                                                                                       Reports
    Ratio                                                  Commentary
    6. Cash Expense Cover Ratio                            The liquidity ratio indicates the number of months a
                                                           council can continue paying for its immediate
                                                           expenses without additional cash inflow.


                                                           Consolidated:
                                                           Benchmark is greater than 3x
                                                           March 2022 – Favourable




    7. Building & Infrastructure Renewals Ratio            This ratio is to assess the rate at which assets are
                                                           being renewed against the rate at which they are
                                                           depreciated.

                                                           Consolidated:
                                                           Benchmark is greater than 100%.
                                                           March 2022 – Unfavourable


                                                           This ratio has improved slightly however the final
                                                           position will be based on flood recovery works and
                                                           grant funding.




Other
Floods and Storms - February, March and April 2022
Lismore LGA was hit by catastrophic floods and storms across February, March and April 2022. Extensive
damage was sustained by Council assets including roads, properties, parks, sporting facilities, Waste
Facility, Airport and Lismore Memorial Baths. In addition, losses were suffered by Council staff, suppliers,
tenants and contractors and Council facilities were closed due to staff shortages, change of use (such as
the evacuation centre at GSAC) and damage to facilities.

The main areas expected to be significantly impacted by the floods are:

•     Capital works across all areas of the organisation
•     Northern Rivers Quarry
•     Lismore Memorial Baths
•     Goonellabah Sports & Aquatic Centre
•     Events & Tourism
•     Lismore Regional Airport
•     Development & Compliance (planning)
•     Roads
•     Commercial Property
•     Lismore Waste Facility
•     Water & Wastewater

    Lismore City Council
    Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
    Statement
                                                                                                          93
                                                                                                     Reports
This report addresses the impact of the floods on the remaining 2021/22 budget. The financial impact of
the floods will be ongoing for several years. Reconstruction and repair of Council assets and facilities will
consume huge volumes of both financial and human resources. Many of these projects will not commence
until after the end of the 2021/22 financial year and will not be reflected in this report. A schedule of works
has been prepared for completion in the 2022/23 year.

At the time of writing this report it is not possible to quantify the precise impact of the floods on the budget
however it can be reasonably assumed that many projects will be deferred. Delays to restarting “business
as usual” is expected until such time as resources can be re-focused from emergency disaster works. This
is likely to be several months away.

The March 2022 QBRS has been prepared on the basis that many of Council’s resources will be deployed
in flood recovery efforts. The revised forecast uses the following assumptions:

   1. Significant amounts of the resources of council have been redirected from previously budgeted
       activities to flood recovery.
   2. Productivity will be reduced due to staff from all areas of Council being involved with flood recovery
       works.
   3. Reconstruction, repairs and maintenance will be limited to urgent works on flood and storm
       damaged assets due to a lack of available materials and labour.
   4. Activities planned for the CBD such as the “CBD revitalisation” and any tourism events will not
       proceed. The exception to this will be fundraising activities such as the upcoming concert on 15
       May 2022 which has been included in the budget.
State and Federal Government organisations have pledged to support large portions of the recovery work
and insurance will cover part of the damage to property however rebuilding is expected to take several
years and will be hampered by lack of access to contractors and materials.

COVID-19
It was initially expected that 2021/22 would see a decrease in COVID-19 restrictions and an increase in
economic activity, opening of facilities and a return to the office for all staff. Outbreaks across NSW
through the summer holiday period caused the re-instatement of restrictions and meant that some
activities and project were no longer feasible. Had it not been for the floods then these activities may
have been moved to dates closer to the end of 2021/22 however this is no longer possible.

Where Council has the ability to defer funding and projects then this has been recorded in the March 22
QBRS as reduction in expenditure. The planned activity has been included in the 2022/23 budget and
operational plan where it is likely to be conducted next year.

Capital and grant-funded projects postponed to a future period
There will be a number of activities postponed until next financial year, or even a later financial year.
These are reflected in the QBRS as amounts removed from expense budgets and transferred to reserve
or reduced grants revenues. Where the activity is expected to be carried out next year (2022/23) then it
will be included in the planned activities in that budget.

Attachment/s
 1.⇨     March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review Statement (Over 7 pages)




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - March 2022 Quarterly Budget Review
 Statement
                                                                                                        94
                                                                                                  Report
Report
 Subject                 Investments - April 2022
 TRIM Record No          BP22/35:EF21/92

 Prepared by             Management Accountant

 Reason                  Required by Local Government Act 1993, Local Government (General)
                         Regulations 2005 and Council's Investment Policy
 Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

 Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

 Action                  Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
Investments as of 30 April 2022 are estimated to be $123,412,000.

The interest rate reported for April 2022 is estimated to be 0.55% which is above the 90 Day Bank Bill
Index of 0.46%. The final interest return may vary due to actual returns achieved on investments advised
after month end.


Recommendation
 That the report be received and noted.

Background
The Local Government Act 1993 (Section 625), Local Government (General) Regulations 2005
(Clause 212) and Council’s Investment Policy requires a monthly report be submitted to Council on
investments. The report is to include the source and amount of funds invested, investment portfolio
performance for the period and a statement of compliance in relation to the requirements of the
Local Government Act 1993.

Report on Investments
   •   Confirmation of Investments – at Market Value – 31 March 2022                     $118,162,000
   •   Estimated Investments – at Market Value – 30 April 2022                           $123,412,000

Investments increased during April 2022 by $5.25 million. This was mainly due to a further $5.00 million
received from TfNSW in advance for works associated with the February 2022 flood event and 75% of
Financial Assistance Grants for 2022/23 received in advance of $5.31 million. This income was offset by
an increase in payments made to creditors with the additional works being carried out after the flood event
along with the payment of staff costs during the month.

The current rate of return on investments for April 2022 is estimated to be 0.55% using actual returns
where available, and estimates based on the previous period balances and interest rates. This is above
the 90 Day Bank Bill Index of 0.46%.

The estimated interest earned for April 2022 is $54,100. Estimated interest earned to date is $418,546
which is more than the pro rata 2021/22 budget of $379,833. This is a favourable variance of $38,713.

 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                                               95
                                                                                                          Report
The current investing environment is still complicated with liquidity levels still high for many institutions,
however some increases in interest rates are starting to be seen.

Compliance with Policy Requirements
The current investment policy was adopted by Council in May 2020. This policy shows a move towards
the framework suggested by TCorp to comply with their borrowing requirements into the future.

A plan to move towards the policy requirements is being followed, but as can be expected, this has taken
some time, especially during COVID-19 times. As investments come due, wherever possible they are
moved to comply with the current policy. No investment will be broken early to fit within the required
framework.

The following is a summary of where Council’s investments currently sit in relation to the adopted policy
requirements:

                                                    Maximum           Current
          Long Term Rating
                                                    Portfolio Limit Holding
           AAA                                            100%
           AA+ to AA-                                     100%             54%
           A+ to A                                        100%             14%
           A-                                             40%
           BBB+                                           20%              16%
           BBB                                            10%               9%
           BBB- and below – Local ADIs                     5%               3%
           BBB- and below – other *                        5%               4%
           TCorp                                          100%
      *note – the total for this long term rating category is below the maximum portfolio limit however the
      individual institution limits are still outside policy requirements. A move towards policy compliance
      in this space is continuing.

Fossil Free (Ethical) Investments
As part of the current policy framework and within the limits of prevailing legislation, Council’s investments
will be made in consideration of the principals of ethical investment management.

To meet the adopted Investment Policy requirements, the holdings in some institutions that are fossil fuel
free have been divested as they do not meet the rating criteria. Investments in institutions that are not
fossil fuel free but provide green term deposits and bonds are continually being investigated and will be
considered within the investment framework as they become available and fit within the policy criteria.

Following is a summary of the movement:

                                               As reported for March         As reported for April 2022
                                                       2022
 Type of Investment
                                             Value of       % of             Value of         % of
                                             Investments Portfolio           Investments      Portfolio
 No Investment in Fossil Fuel Industry        $35,000,000            30%      $35,000,000              28%
 Investment in Fossil Fuel Industry           $83,162,000            70%      $88,412,000              72%

The market is still quite liquid and the availability of institutions that have been taking funds that fit
Council’s policy requirements and do not invest in the fossil fuel industry have been limited.



 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                                                         96
                                                                                                   Report
The information for the assessment has been sourced from the website www.marketforces.org.au which
is an affiliate project of the Friends of the Earth Australia. This is still considered the best information
available to make this assessment.

Comments
Responsible Accounting Officer
All investments with various financial institutions have been made in accordance with the
Local Government Act 1993 and Local Government (General) Regulations 2005. A new investment
policy was adopted in May 2020 moving towards the framework suggested by TCorp to comply with their
borrowing requirements. A move towards the policy is continuing, taking into consideration the difficulty
of investing during COVID-19 and now the cashflow requirements of the recent flood event. The portfolio
is now sitting within maximum portfolio limits for rating categories however there are still some
investments that do not satisfy the limit requirements per institution.


Conclusion
A report on investments is required to be submitted to Council monthly. As of 30 April 2022, investments
total $123,412,000 and the annualised rate of return is estimated at 0.55%.


Attachment/s
 1.⇩    Capital Value Movement including name of institution, purchase date and maturity
 2.⇩    Estimated Interest showing interest rate and estimated interest earned for the year
 3.⇩    Total Investment Portfolio held by month and Weighted Average Interest Rate - Graphical
 4.⇩    Investment by Type - Graphical
 5.⇩    Investment by Institution as a percentage of total portfolio - Graphical




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                                                97
Capital Value Movement including name of institution, purchase date and   Attachment 1
maturity




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                              98
Capital Value Movement including name of institution, purchase date and   Attachment 1
maturity




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                              99
Estimated Interest showing interest rate and estimated interest earned for the   Attachment 2
year




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                                  100
Estimated Interest showing interest rate and estimated interest earned for the   Attachment 2
year




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                                  101
Total Investment Portfolio held by month and Weighted Average Interest Rate -   Attachment 3
Graphical




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                                 102
Investment by Type - Graphical                        Attachment 4




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022       103
Investment by Institution as a percentage of total portfolio - Graphical   Attachment 5




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Investments - April 2022                            104
                                                                                                   Reports
Report
 Subject                  Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 3 -
                          January to March 2022
 TRIM Record No           BP22/226:EF18/696

 Prepared by              Acting Corporate Planning & Engagement Coordinator

 Reason                   In accordance with the Local Government Act 1993, the General Manager is
                          required to provide Council with a report on Delivery Program implementation
                          at least every six months. Lismore City Council currently reports quarterly.
 Strategic Theme          Leadership and participation

 Strategy                 We provide effective management and responsible governance.

 Action                   Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
The attached Progress Report provides a summary of progress against each of the activities in Council’s
combined Delivery Program 2017–2021 and Operational Plan 2021-22 between January and March
2022. The natural disaster in February 2022 and the ongoing impact of COVID-19 were the leading
causes of actions being reported as off track or cancelled/deferred. Council staff are actively taking steps
to mitigate these impacts within available resources and communicate any material services delivery
impacts with key stakeholders.


Recommendation
 That Council receive and endorse the attached Q3 Progress Report for the period January to March
 2022.


Background
The Integrated Planning and Reporting (IP&R) Framework is the set of tools that Council uses to design
and deliver a portfolio of services and projects that work towards the community’s vision and goals for the
Lismore local government area. In accordance with this framework, we currently have in place a
Community Strategic Plan 2017-2027, prepared by Council on behalf of the community, which sets out
the community’s vision for Lismore by 2027; and a combined Delivery Program 2017-2021 (Council’s
commitment to the community) and Operational Plan 2021-22.

The Local Government Act 1993 requires the General Manager to provide a report on the progress of
implementing Council’s Delivery Program at least every six months. We currently report progress quarterly,
aligned with Quarterly Budget Review Statements, so that Council can consider its budget performance in
conjunction with progress against the activities that this budget pays for. The attached progress report
covers the period 1 January to 1 March 2022.

The report includes traffic light status updates with supporting commentary for each action in the
Operational Plan 2021/22. It also includes progress for the year to date for measures against each
operational activity. As measures were introduced this financial year for the first time, there are still some
areas of inconsistency in the report for some measures. As an organisation, we are on a continuous



 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 3 -
 January to March 2022
                                                                                                   105
                                                                                                  Reports
improvement journey with the way we report progress, and it is important to note that significant progress
has been made this financial year. As we continue to uplift the role and discipline of IP&R in the
organisation, we anticipate these areas of inconsistency will significantly decrease.

In terms of operational performance, of the 169 actions, 105 (64%) are reported as on track (green). We
are actively taking steps to address impacts or delays to 40 actions (22%) reported as amber, and a further
14 actions (8%) have been deferred to a later time or cancelled (blue). At this time, there are three actions
reported as red (needs critical attention), all of which relate to assets that were severely impacted by the
natural disaster in February and March 2022.

These natural disasters together with the ongoing impact of COVID-19 were the leading causes of actions
being reported as off track. Active steps are being taken by Council staff to recover assets and operations
impacted by flood events, in collaboration with relevant state agencies and funding bodies and at the
direction of Council. With respect to COVID-19 impacts, it is anticipated that rolling staff shortages and
supply chain disruptions will continue to impact some services and projects for the remainder of the
financial year.

These cumulative impacts will be managed as best as possible within available resources, and Council
staff will continue to communicate with Council and the community regarding any material changes to
service levels via the website, social media, Your Say Lismore, and direct communication.

Comments
Finance
Not required

Other staff comments
Not required

Public consultation
The report will be placed on Council’s website as well as the Your Say Lismore Engagement portal for
community access.


Conclusion
This Progress Report details progress against the operational activities and projects as set out in the
Imagine Lismore Delivery Program 2017-2021/Operational Plan 2021-22 for the period January to March
2022.

Attachment/s
 1.⇨ Delivery Program 2017 - 2021 Progress Report Quarter 3 - January to March               (Over 7
     2022                                                                                    pages)




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 3 -
 January to March 2022
                                                                                                  106
                                                                                                  Report
Report
 Subject                 Business Activation Working Group Councillor
                         Representative and Terms of Reference
 TRIM Record No          BP22/267:EF21/171

 Prepared by             Manager Economic Development

 Reason                  To adopt the new Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference and
                         elect a councillor to the Working Group
 Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

 Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

 Action                  Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
The purpose of this report is to adopt the new Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference
and to appoint a Councillor to the Working Group to provide ongoing feedback on the implementation of
Council’s Business Activation Plan that guides Lismore’s Special Business Rate Variation Levy (SBRVL)
expenditure.

Recommendation
 That Council:
    1.      approve the new Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference
    2.      elect a Councillor representative to the Business Activation Working Group at this meeting
            through a nomination process. If there is more than one nomination, an open ballot show of
            hands process will run. If there is only one nominee, then the nominee is elected.


Background
At Council’s ordinary meeting on 16 February 2022 amendments to the Business Activation Working Group
Terms of Reference were adopted to reflect a membership amendment to include 1 councillor, as elected
by Council. Accordingly, the Terms of Reference were amended.

A subsequent report was presented to Council’s ordinary meeting on 22 March 2022 to elect a councillor
representative to the Working Group. At this meeting, a motion was moved deferring the matter until a
report be brought forward with the new Terms of Reference. In response to this motion, this report presents
the new Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference for approval with changes made noted
below:

     1.     Section 4.2:
            The Group will include a maximum of 11 members in total, including:
               • Lismore City Council Mayor (Chairperson) or delegate
               • 1 elected councillor as nominated by Council
               • 4 business and industry sector representatives (as outlined in section 4.1)
               • 1 Lismore Chamber of Commerce and Industry representative
               • 1 Nimbin Chamber of Commerce representative


 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Business Activation Working Group Councillor
 Representative and Terms of Reference
                                                                                                107
                                                                                                 Report
                  •   1 Southern Cross University representative across innovation, entrepreneurship and
                      education fields
                  •   CBD Activation Officer, Lismore City Council Economic Development Team
                  •   Lismore City Council General Manager or delegate.

       3.     Section 5.2
              The words ‘and chair’ removed from the following sentence to reflect the amendment of the
              Mayor as the Working Group Chairperson:

              As the Project Manager of the Business Activation Plan and part of the Lismore City Council
              Economic Development Team, the CBD Activation Officer will coordinate meetings and ensure
              key reporting including…

Furthermore, this report seeks Council to elect a Councillor representative to the Business Activation
Working Group through a nomination process.


Comments
Finance
Not required.

Other staff comments
Not required.

Public consultation
Not required.

Conclusion
Council adopts the new Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference and elects a Councillor
representative to the Business Activation Working Group.

Attachment/s
 1.⇩        Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Business Activation Working Group Councillor
 Representative and Terms of Reference
                                                                                               108
Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Business Activation Working Group Councillor
Representative and Terms of Reference
                                                                              109
Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Business Activation Working Group Councillor
Representative and Terms of Reference
                                                                              110
Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Business Activation Working Group Councillor
Representative and Terms of Reference
                                                                              111
Business Activation Working Group Terms of Reference                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Business Activation Working Group Councillor
Representative and Terms of Reference
                                                                              112
                                                                                                   Reports
Report
Subject                  Rates & Charges Hardship Policy
TRIM Record No           BP22/274:EF19/13-4

Prepared by              Manager Finance

Reason                   To place the amended Rates & Charges Hardship Policy on public exhibition

Strategic Theme          Leadership and participation

Strategy                 We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                   Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
The current natural disaster has had significant financial impact on our ratepayers and community.
Council has indicated an intention to explore all possible avenues for rate relief and support within its
financial capacity. However, it is noted that Council has very limited resources to subsidise rate relief,
especially considering the significant impact of the natural disaster on Council’s own assets and
resources.

Advice was sought the from the Office Local Government (OLG) on Council obligations regarding rates
and rates relief, the following is a summary:

   •   Council has no legal ability to not charge rates; rates need to be levied.
   •   Council has no legal ability to write off rates across rating categories, or holistically for segments
       of the population.
   •   Relief on rates and charges needs to be on a case-by-case basis and applied through an
       appropriate mechanism.

Council has also received legal advice that supports the advice from the Office of Local Government.

After consideration of the advice received it is deemed the most appropriate mechanism to provide
relief to ratepayers suffering hardship is through Council’s Hardship Policy 1.5.11. Under the current
Rates Hardship Policy, Council can enter a payment arrangement, but has limited scope to waive
interest on overdue rates. Therefore, it is considered that the current policy does not provide wide
enough flexibility to address the current issues adequately.

Council can either develop a new policy or amend the existing policy to address these events.
After consultation and receiving feedback from stakeholders, it is considered that an amendment to the
existing policy would be the most appropriate and allow for ongoing flexibility for Council.

The policy is required to be placed on public display and will be brought back to Council at the June
meeting for consideration. Council needs to resolve to put the updated policy on public exhibition.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy                                         113
                                                                                                        Reports
Recommendation
 That:
       1.       Council place the amended Rates & Charges Hardship Policy on public exhibition for a
                period of 28 days and receive and consider submissions from the public
       2.       Council amends its 2022 Operational Plan and set the interest rate on overdue rates to zero
                (0%) from 1 March 2022 until 30 June 2022
       3.       water charges – where excess water usage is identified for affected properties the charge
                should be based on previous daily usage patterns. Hardship applications to be considered in
                line with the amended Rates Hardship Policy.


Background
The current natural disaster has had significant financial impact on our ratepayers and community.
Council has indicated an intention to explore all possible avenues for rate relief and support within its
financial capacity. However, it is noted that Council has very limited resources to subsidise rate relief,
especially considering the significant impact of the natural disaster on Council’s own assets and
resources

Advice was sought the from the Office Local Government (OLG) on Council obligations regarding rates
and rates relief, the following is a summary:

   •        Council has no legal ability to not charge rates; rates need to be levied.
   •        Council has no legal ability to write off rates across rating categories, or holistically for segments
            of the population.
   •        Relief on rates and charges needs to be on a case-by-case basis and applied through an
            appropriate mechanism.

Council has also received legal advice that supports the advice from the Office of Local Government

Generally, there are no legislative provisions available to Council to write off rates and charges based on
hardship (the Local Government Regulation (s131) sets out the limited reasons this can occur). This is
consistent with the approach that the Act takes for provision of individual support to individual
ratepayers.

Council must levy the rates as per normal and then apply appropriate mechanisms under the Act to
address ratepayers impacted by the floods. The appropriate mechanism is through Council’s hardship
policies and procedures. OLG has issued Debt Management and Hardship Guidelines to assist.

Some of the options available to assist ratepayers experiencing financial hardship, under the Act and
Regulation, include:

   •        A payment plan or agreement
   •        Interest may be waived or reduced for a set period

Relief under Council’s Hardship Policy applies to individuals who are required to pay rates and charges.
Council notes that in some circumstances these payments flow through to tenants and leases as part of
their commercial arrangements. It is beyond the scope of Council to offer relief to non-ratepayers; the
expectation should be that relief should be passed through by landlords if it is available.

Council staff will facilitate a process to make it easy for people to both apply for relief, and evidence their
eligibility. This may involve reliance on third party referral (welfare case workers, financial counsellors)
to streamline the approval process.



 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy                                             114
                                                                                                  Reports
Communication of this policy with the community will be a key component of successful execution; the
most significantly impacted individuals may no longer have postal addresses. Council will work with key
stakeholders to ensure clarity on the process.

Council’s Hardship Policy will need to be amended to reflect a new category of “Natural Disaster Impact”.

This will allow for a streamlined application process in the current circumstances.

This will need to go on public exhibition and return to Council’s June meeting.

Comments
Finance
Council has very limited resources to subsidise rate relief, especially considering the significant impact of
the natural disaster on Council’s own assets, incomes, and the resources Council needs. The overall
impact on Council is still being assessed as are the funding sources available to address these impacts.

Any relief provided needs to be considered regarding Council’s cashflow and ongoing ability to deliver
services to the community. Where possible Council will leverage State and Federal Governments to fill
revenue gaps created via application of the Rates & Charges Hardship Policy.

Under the current Rates Hardship Policy, Council can enter a payment arrangement under its existing
Rates Hardship Policy but has limited scope to waive interest on overdue rates. Therefore, it is
considered that the current policy does not provide enough flexibility to address the current issues
adequately.

Public consultation
To be placed on public exhibition for 28 days and seek public submissions.

Conclusion
Based on advice received from the Office of Local Government and confirmed through legal advice,
Council has no legal ability to not charge rates; rates need to be levied. In addition, Council has no legal
ability to write off rates across rating categories, or holistically for segments of the population.

Relief on rates and charges needs to be on a case-by-case basis and applied through an appropriate
mechanism. The most appropriate mechanism is through Council’s Hardship Policy 1.5.11.

The current policy does not provide enough flexibility to address the issues adequately.

A revised policy has been developed to allow more flexibility to Council, the policy is required to be
placed on public display and will be brought back to Council at the June Ordinary meeting for
consideration.

Council needs to resolve to put the updated policy on public exhibition.

Attachment/s
 1.⇩    Rates and Hardship Policy




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy                                       115
Rates and Hardship Policy                                    Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy       116
Rates and Hardship Policy                                    Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy       117
Rates and Hardship Policy                                    Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy       118
Rates and Hardship Policy                                    Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy       119
Rates and Hardship Policy                                    Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Rates & Charges Hardship Policy       120
                                                                                                  Report
Report
 Subject                 Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy
 TRIM Record No          BP22/237:EF16/286

 Prepared by             Executive Assistant - General Manager and Mayor & Councillors

 Reason                  Review the policy in accordance with Section 252 of the Local Government Act
                         1993
 Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

 Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

 Action                  Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
The Local Government Act 1993 (s252) requires the adoption of a Councillor Expenses and Facilities
Policy within 12 months of the commencement of a new council term.

The current policy was adopted in November 2017 and was based on the Office of Local Government’s
(OLG) best practice model policy.

The attached policy as no amendments and is the same as the current policy. The policy should go on
public exhibition before final consideration for adoption by Council.


Recommendation
 That the Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy be placed on public exhibition for 28 days and be
 reported back to Council for consideration with any submissions received.


Background
The Local Government Act 1993 (s252) requires the adoption of a Councillor Expenses and Facilities
Policy within 12 months of the commencement of a new council term.

Section 253 of the Act states:
253 Requirements before policy concerning expenses and facilities can be adopted or amended
   (1) A council must give public notice of its intention to adopt or amend a policy for the payment of
       expenses or provision of facilities allowing at least 28 days for the making of public submissions.
   (2) Before adopting or amending the policy, the council must consider any submissions made within
       the time allowed for submissions and make any appropriate changes to the draft policy or
       amendment.

Public consultation
The public notice period for submissions is 28 days. The Council must consider any submission made
during this period prior to adopting or amending the policy.




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy                            121
                                                                                                Report
Conclusion
The Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy be placed on public exhibition for 28 days and be reported
back to Council for consideration with any submission received.

Attachment/s
 1.⇩    1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy                          122
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       123
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       124
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       125
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       126
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       127
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       128
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       129
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       130
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       131
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       132
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       133
1.2.23 Councillor Expenses and Facilities Policy                      Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Councillors Expenses & Facilities Policy       134
                                                                                                  Reports
Report
 Subject                   Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy
 TRIM Record No            BP22/284:EF19/493-4

 Prepared by               Governance & Customer Service Manager

 Reason                    Update of policy following release of Model Councillor and Staff Interaction
                           Policy from Office Local Government


Executive Summary
The Office of Local Government (OLG) is developing a suite of best practice governance policies. These
model policies use a “best of breed” approach to existing council policies and reflect what the OLG see
as best practice for councils.

The OLG has issued a best practice Model Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy. If adopted the policy
will compliment Council’s adopted Code of Conduct. In December 2018 the OLG released a new Model
Code of Meeting Practice.


        Recommendation
 That Council:
       1. adopt the draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy.
       2. Policy 1.2.24 Councillor/Staff Communication Policy and Councillor/Staff Communication
          Guidelines be revoked.


Background
Council adopted the Councillor/Staff Communication Policy and Councillor/Staff Communication
Guidelines in February 2015. They have not been reviewed since adopted.

The OLG has now finalised and issued a Model Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy. The model policy
is not mandatory however it has been developed following two rounds of consultation with the local
government sector and represent a “best practice” approach. The model policy is also informed by
advice provided by key NSW Government agencies including:

   •     the Independent Commission Against Corruption
   •     the Information and Privacy Commission
   •     the State Archives and Records Authority.

Adoption of the policy is recommended as there is no reason why Council should not be working with
best practice policies that have been developed and endorsed by the OLG.

Attachment/s
 1.⇩      Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                         135
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       136
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       137
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       138
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       139
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       140
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       141
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       142
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       143
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       144
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       145
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       146
Draft LCC Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy                          Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Draft Councillor and Staff Interaction Policy       147
Committee
Recommendations
                                                          Committee Recommendation
Committee Recommendation
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022


Recommendation
 That the minutes be received and adopted and the recommendations contained therein be adopted.


Attachment/s
 1.⇩    Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13
 April 2022
                                                                                         149
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April
2022
                                                                                          150
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April
2022
                                                                                          151
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April
2022
                                                                                          152
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April
2022
                                                                                          153
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April
2022
                                                                                          154
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April
2022
                                                                                          155
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April 2022                         Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 13 April
2022
                                                                                          156
Documents for Signing and
Sealing
                        Document for Signing and Sealing
Document for Signing and Sealing
The following documents have been prepared in accordance with previous resolutions of the Council
and/or the provisions of the Local Government Act 1993 and other relevant statutes.

The report does not recommend the Council seal be affixed to documents inconsistent with:
a) Council Corporate Procedure 1.1.36, which purpose is to limit use of the Council seal to documents
   required by law to be signed under seal; and
b) The General Manager’s delegations to grant leases and licenses at the time these agreements were
   negotiated, which avoids commercial disadvantage to Council and the proposed occupiers that could
   suffer if agreements were required to be reported to Council prior to being agreed.




Executive Summary
The attached Annexure provides details of the renewal lease over the Roy Waddell Community Centre.


Recommendation
 That Council note the following document to be executed as negotiated under delegated authority by
 the General Manager:

 A. Lease to occupy Roy Waddell Community Centre located at 149 Richmond Hill Road,
    Richmond Hill (Lot 2, DP 558729) to Roy Waddell Community Centre Association Incorporated
    (ABN 35 786 520 199) for five years for the permitted use of a community centre and other ancillary
    uses thereto (including preschool). (ref: AF19/4347)


Attachment/s
 1.⇩    Document Details for Signing and Sealing




 Lismore City Council
 Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Documents for Signing and Sealing                                 158
Document Details for Signing and Sealing                       Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 10 May 2022 - Documents for Signing and Sealing       159
MINUTES OF THE ORDINARY MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LISMORE HELD IN
COUNCIL CHAMBERS ON TUESDAY 12 APRIL 2022 AT 6.00PM


Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting. Decisions
recorded in the draft minutes are subject to the Council’s Code of Meeting Practice in relation to
rescinding decisions.

 Present
           Mayor, Councillor Krieg; Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
           Jensen, Rob, together with the Acting General Manager, Director Corporate Services,
           Director Infrastructure Services, Director Partnerships, Planning & Engagement, Manager
           Finance, Technology Support Officers, Governance & Customer Service Manager and
           Executive Assistant to the General Manager & Mayor and Councillors.




Apologies and Leave of Absence
         A leave of absence was sought from:

         Councillor Rob from 16 to 20 May 2022 to attend the Floodplain Management Conference in
         Toowoomba.

         Councillor Ekins from 17 to 20 May 2022 to attend the Floodplain Management Conference in
         Toowoomba.

         Councillor Jensen from 16 to 20 May 2022 to attend the Floodplain Management Conference
         in Toowoomba.


Confirmation of Minutes of Previous Meeting
 87/22     RESOLVED that the minutes of the 22 March 2022 meeting be confirmed.

           (Councillors Rob/Jensen)

           Voting for:           Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                 Jensen, Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:       Nil
                                                                                   Council Minutes
                                                                                     12 April 2022
Disclosure of Interest
Clr Rob declared a Non-Pecuniary, Significant Conflict of Interest for the following item: 10.3
Advisory Groups & 14.9 Aboriginal Advisory Group Membership Recommendation
Nature: I was recently involved in an altercation with one of the individuals recommended for
appointment in item 14.9. Item 10.3 is linked to item 14.9. I intend to withdraw item 10.3 and leave the
Chamber for item 14.9.

Clr Cook declared a Non-Pecuniary, Non-Significant Conflict of Interest for the following item:
14.1 2022 and 2023 Lismore Cup Part Day Public Holiday Application
Nature: My partner submitted a response to the public exhibition.

Clr Bird declared a Significant Conflict of Interest for the following item: 14.7 Lismore City Council
Flood Fund Committee
Nature: I am the Chair of Resilient Lismore, a community organisation actively participating in recovery
in Lismore.

Clr Guise declared a Pecuniary, Significant Conflict of Interest for the following item: 13.1 Lismore
Base Hospital Precinct – Parking Controls and COVID-19
Nature: I work for NSW Health


Public Access Session on Agenda Items
Prior to dealing with the circulated reports and associated information, a Public Access Session was held
at which Council was addressed by the following:


Notices of Motion

           10.1 Floodplain Management Committee

             FOR              Simon Clough



Matters Arising

           13.4 Deferral of Peace Park Reclassification Report

             FOR              Natalie Meyer, Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information Centre Inc



Reports of the General Manager

           14.4 Transfer of Part Crown Road to Council to facilitate all weather access to property
           at Boundary Creek Road, Bentley

             FOR              David Page-Dhu


 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                   161
                                                                                Council Minutes
                                                                                  12 April 2022
Mayoral Minute(s) and Condolence Motions

Notice of Rescission Motions

           9.1 Notice of Rescission - Floodplain Management Committee Minutes

88/22      RESOLVED that Council rescind its decision on Item 15.2 from 22 March 2022 meeting.

           (Councillors Bird/Guise) (BP22/173)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                  Jensen, Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:        Nil



Matter of Urgency
89/22      MOTION moved that the following issue be considered as a matter of urgency that
           Council:

              1. acknowledges that Council, our residents, our businesses and farming communities
                 are increasingly traumatised by the struggle to deal with multiple state and federal
                 agencies and complicated red tape in order to access financial assistance to help
                 recovery from the flood disaster.
              2. acknowledges that the size and scale of this disaster is beyond the capacity of a
                 single government department, or a council, or our charity and community
                 organisations, to oversee and coordinate the entire response that is required to
                 rebuild our city.
              3. notes that history has demonstrated, in Darwin in 1974, Victoria in 2009, and
                 Christchurch in 2011, for example, that the most beneficial outcomes for the
                 affected communities were achieved by the timely establishment and funding of a
                 dedicated centralised authority such as a Recovery and Reconstruction
                 Commission.
              4. calls on the Commonwealth and NSW Governments to commit to providing multi
                 million dollar funding packages, similar to that recently provided for QLD, to enable
                 the recovery and reconstruction effort in the Northern Rivers to proceed.
              5. calls on the NSW Premier to urgently establish a Northern Rivers Recovery and
                 Reconstruction Commission, reporting to the Premier, with one central chain of
                 command inclusive of all levels of government, stakeholders and community to
                 oversee the implementation of funded recovery and reconstruction programs.
              6. the Commission must have clear outcomes and commitments, with wide ranging
                 powers to take charge of the entire recovery and reconstruction process, and must
                 have the authority to fast track decisions on issues such as voluntary house



Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                162
                                                                                  Council Minutes
                                                                                    12 April 2022
                  buybacks, acquisition of lands for relocation of residents, planning approvals,
                  infrastructure repairs and road reconstruction.
              7. the terms of reference for the Commission must include a community led response
                 to recovery and reconstruction and that the set-up budget of the Commission be
                 adequate to ensure such community consultation.
           (Councillors Cook/Bird)

           At this time the Mayor ruled that this is a matter of urgency.

90/22      On submission to the meeting the motion was RESOLVED that Council:

              1. acknowledges that Council, our residents, our businesses and farming communities
                 are increasingly traumatised by the struggle to deal with multiple state and federal
                 agencies and complicated red tape in order to access financial assistance to help
                 recovery from the flood disaster.
              2. acknowledges that the size and scale of this disaster is beyond the capacity of a
                 single government department, or a council, or our charity and community
                 organisations, to oversee and coordinate the entire response that is required to
                 rebuild our city.
              3. notes that history has demonstrated, in Darwin in 1974, Victoria in 2009, and
                 Christchurch in 2011, for example, that the most beneficial outcomes for the
                 affected communities were achieved by the timely establishment and funding of a
                 dedicated centralised authority such as a Recovery and Reconstruction
                 Commission.
              4. calls on the Commonwealth and NSW Governments to commit to providing multi
                 million dollar funding packages, similar to that recently provided for QLD, to enable
                 the recovery and reconstruction effort in the Northern Rivers to proceed.
              5. calls on the NSW Premier to urgently establish a Northern Rivers Recovery and
                 Reconstruction Commission, reporting to the Premier, with one central chain of
                 command inclusive of all levels of government, stakeholders and community to
                 oversee the implementation of funded recovery and reconstruction programs.
              6. the Commission must have clear outcomes and commitments, with wide ranging
                 powers to take charge of the entire recovery and reconstruction process, and must
                 have the authority to fast track decisions on issues such as voluntary house
                 buybacks, acquisition of lands for relocation of residents, planning approvals,
                 infrastructure repairs and road reconstruction.
              7. the terms of reference for the Commission must include a community led response
                 to recovery and reconstruction and that the set-up budget of the Commission be
                 adequate to ensure such community consultation.

           (Councillors Cook/Bird)

           Voting for:               Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                     Jensen and Krieg
           Voting against:           Councillor Rob



Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                   163
                                                                                   Council Minutes
                                                                                     12 April 2022
Councillor Jeri Hall left the meeting, the time being 7:07PM
Councillor Jeri Hall returned to the meeting, the time being 7:12PM


Notice of Motions

            10.1 Floodplain Management Committee

            MOTION moved that:
                1. the minutes of the Floodplain Management Committee be received
                2. the Floodplain Management Committee meet to determine a new terms of
                   reference
                3. Council request the draft terms of reference for the CSIRO study into floodplain
                   management, prior to their finalisation, in order to provide input into their
                   development
                4. Council request that a technical representative from the Floodplain Management
                   Committee sit on any committees or reference groups that are established in
                   regard to the CSIRO study in order to provide direct input from and reporting back
                   to the Floodplain Management Committee.

            (Councillors Bird/Guise)

 91/22      AMENDMENT moved and motion DEFEATED that:
               1. the minutes of the Lismore Floodplain Management Committee meeting held on 17
                  February 2022 be received
               2. following the Federal Government’s announcement to support flood affected
                  communities, by committing funding of $10.4 million over two years to the CSIRO
                  to identify options and opportunities for mitigating risk and building resilience in the
                  Northern Rivers Region, Council delay the next phase of the Lismore Floodplain
                  Risk Management Study and Plan process until the terms of reference relating to
                  the CSIRO study are made publicly available
               3. the Floodplain Management Committee continue meeting, while awaiting the terms
                  of reference relating to the CSIRO study, inviting the community to attend each
                  meeting as the Committee considers flood related issues and identifies previously
                  unknown flood problems to be addressed, objectives of the Committee provided for
                  in points 1 and 2 of the Committee’s Scope outlined in the Committee’s terms of
                  reference.

            (Councillors Rob/Gordon) (BP22/219)

            Voting for:            Councillors Gordon, Hall, Jensen and Rob
            Voting against:        Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Guise and Krieg




 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                   164
                                                                               Council Minutes
                                                                                 12 April 2022
92/22      On submission to the meeting the motion was RESOLVED that:
               1. the minutes of the Floodplain Management Committee be received
               2. the Floodplain Management Committee meet to determine a new terms of
                  reference
               3. Council request the draft terms of reference for the CSIRO study into floodplain
                  management, prior to their finalisation, in order to provide input into their
                  development
               4. Council request that a technical representative from the Floodplain Management
                  Committee sit on any committees or reference groups that are established in
                  regard to the CSIRO study in order to provide direct input from and reporting back
                  to the Floodplain Management Committee.

           (Councillors Bird/Guise) (BP22/219)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                  Jensen and Krieg
           Voting against:        Councillor Rob




           10.2 Reserves Policy

93/22      RESOLVED that Council hold a workshop relating to Reserves Policy, policy number
           1.5.10, to review the purpose, operating guidelines and management of reserve funds.

           (Councillors Rob/Krieg) (BP22/177)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                  Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:        Councillor Guise




           10.3 Advisory Groups

           That:
              1.    the Business Activation Working Group be renamed as the Business Activation
                    Working Committee;
              2.    the Koala Implementation Group be renamed as the Koala Advisory Group;
              3.    excluding the Nimbin Advisory Group, all councillors are immediately removed as
                    appointed members of Council’s Advisory Groups;
              4.    all councillors are permitted to attend meetings of Advisory Groups as observers
                    with no voting rights, but can ask questions through the Chair of those Advisory
                    Groups as permitted by the Chair.

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                165
                                                                                 Council Minutes
                                                                                   12 April 2022

           Councillor Rob withdrew the motion.



           10.4 BOM Infrastructure

94/22      RESOLVED that Council:
              1. contacts the Australia Bureau of Meteorology (BOM), WaterNSW and the
                 Environment and Heritage Group of the Department of Planning and Environment
                 (DPE), to formally request the prioritisation of upgrading, replacing and/or repairing
                 infrastructure used to provide rain and river data across the Northern Rivers where
                 required, and requests the installation of additional infrastructure be considered by
                 the BOM, WaterNSW and the DPE, to provide reliable, more accurate and detailed
                 publicly accessible data which may better assist with forecasting flood levels
              2. prioritises the replacing and/or repairing of infrastructure used to provide rain and
                 river data across the local government area
              3. installs additional infrastructure to provide reliable, more accurate and detailed
                 publicly accessible data which may better assist with forecasting flood levels, once
                 funding becomes available.
              4. Council apply for funding through the Floodplain Management Program which is
                 currently open and closes on 5 May 2022.

           (Councillors Rob/Gordon) (BP22/195)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                  Jensen, Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:        Nil




           10.5 Browns Creek Catchment

95/22      RESOLVED that Council be provided with an update by Council staff on options available
           for increasing the capacity, reliability, and resilience of the Browns Creek Pump Station.
           The update should include information relating to:
              1.    when hydrological modelling of the Browns Creek catchment was last carried out,
                    which version of the Australian Rainfall and Runoff (ARR) was used, and whether
                    an update is required.
              2.    specification details relating to the existing pumps including type, manufacturer,
                    flow rates, power, age, uptime, etc.
              3.    level of service the pumps offer in terms of maintaining a water level in the
                    Browns Creek basin, expressed as an Annual Exceedance Probability (AEP)?
              4.    the operating rules for the pumps when the river is flooding, when flash-flooding
                    is occurring in the basin and overtopping is not expected, and whether the
                    operating rules adequately manage the risk of damage to structures in the

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                  166
                                                                                  Council Minutes
                                                                                    12 April 2022
                    floodway prior to and in the event of the levee being overtopped, such as
                    allowing the basin to flood slowly prior to overtopping, in the hope of reducing the
                    velocity of the water and the likelihood of infrastructure damage, when
                    overtopping is expected to occur.
              5.    Rous County Council be requested to provide:
                     a.   additional works which could be undertaken to ensure the pumps are not
                          damaged or blocked during operation.
                     b.   specific actions available to Council including estimated costs to increase
                          pump capacity, options to improve pump reliability during and after a flood
                          when electricity supply is often unavailable, and options to improve pump
                          availability for regular service particularly following flood events.
                     c.   whether Rous County Council can offer recommendations or assistance to
                          assist Council to increase the capacity, reliability, and resilience of the
                          Browns Creek Pump Station.
                     d.   whether opportunities exist to seek immediate grant funding, in conjunction
                          with Rous County Council, through our Federal MP or State MP, grant
                          funding through the next round of the National Recovery and Resilience
                          Agency (NRRA) Preparing Australian Communities –Local Stream, or
                          through other grant funding options, to increase the capacity, reliability, and
                          resilience of the Browns Creek Pump Station.

           (Councillors Rob/Jensen) (BP22/213)

           Voting for:             Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                   Jensen, Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:         Nil




Questions with Notice

           11.1 Recovery Committee

           Can the General Manager please provide details relating to:
              1.    existing emergency management, disaster and/or recovery plans Council has
                    specifically related to any part of the Lismore City Council local government area;
              2.    existing plans Council has which may progress recovery following the February
                    2022 Lismore Flood;
              3.    Committees, Subcommittees or Working Groups, including any Terms of
                    Reference, currently in place to manage and progress the various emergency
                    management stages of prevention, preparation, response, and recovery on an
                    ongoing basis.

           At this time the General Manager gave a verbal response to the questions.



Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                   167
                                                                                   Council Minutes
                                                                                     12 April 2022
 Altering Order of Business (Consideration of altering the order of
 business to debate matters raised during Public Access Session)
 96/22      RESOLVED that the order of business be altered to debate the following matters raised
            during Public Access:

               •   13.4 Deferral of Peace Park reclassification report
               •   14.4 Transfer of Part Crown Road to Council to facilitate all weather access to
                   property at Boundary Creek Road, Bentley

            (Councillors Cook/Bird)

            Voting for:               Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                      Jensen, Krieg and Rob
            Voting against:           Nil




Councillor Jeri Hall left the meeting, the time being 8:22PM
Councillor Electra Jensen left the meeting, the time being 8:24PM
Councillor Jeri Hall returned to the meeting, the time being 8:24PM
Councillor Electra Jensen returned to the meeting, the time being 8:26PM
Councillor Adam Guise left the meeting, the time being 8:27PM
Councillor Adam Guise returned to the meeting, the time being 8:28PM


            13.4 Deferral of Peace Park reclassification report

            The MOTION lapsed due to want of a seconder, that:
            1. Council takes no further action in relation to its decision of 9 November 2021 (Item
               BP21/779) to reclassify and transfer Council owned community land at 9 Sibley Street,
               Nimbin (Peace Park - Lot 1 DP 305607) to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
               Centre;
            2. staff prepare suitable information and budget estimates for consideration in the
                upcoming Operational Plan and Budget process to prepare a Plan of Management
                relating to the Peace Park, Nimbin area; and
            3. staff consider leasing, licensing and other estate options in relation to the request from
                the Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information Centre and prepare a report to be brought
                back to Council for consideration.

            (Councillor Rob) (BP22/212)




 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                   168
                                                                                Council Minutes
                                                                                  12 April 2022
 97/22      RESOLVED that Council defers any further consideration of the proposed reclassification
            of Peace Park until such time as a new site concept plan can be provided by the Nimbin
            Neighbourhood & Information Centre.

            (Councillors Bird/Ekins) (BP22/212)

            Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                   Jensen and Krieg
            Voting against:        Councillor Rob




            14.4 Transfer of Part Crown Road to Council to facilitate all weather access to
            property at Boundary Creek Road, Bentley

 98/22      RESOLVED that:
                1. Council submit an application to NSW Department of Industry requesting part of the
                   Crown Road at Bentley, as described in this report, be transferred to Lismore City
                   Council.
                2. to meet the criteria of NSW Department of Industry, the General Manager submits
                   a letter with the application giving consent to the transfer of Crown Road as
                   described in this report.
                3. Council acknowledge the transferred road will not be maintained by Council. In
                   accordance with Council’s Maintenance of Rural Roads Policy 1.8.14, the Crown
                   Road (once transferred) will not be named and will not be detailed on Council’s road
                   register.

            (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/104)

            Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                   Jensen, Krieg and Rob
            Voting against:        Nil




Councillor Elly Bird left the meeting, the time being 8:33PM
Councillor Adam Guise left the meeting, the time being 8:33PM
Councillor Elly Bird returned to the meeting, the time being 8:35PM




 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                169
                                                                                 Council Minutes
                                                                                   12 April 2022
Matters Arising

           13.1 Lismore Base Hospital Precinct - Parking Controls and COVID - 19

           MOTION moved that:
               1.    parking controls within the Lismore Base Hospital precinct be re-instated from
                     Monday 2 May 2022, and
               2.    a minimum 14-day period be committed to community consultation and
                     operational preparedness prior to the nominated re-instatement date.

           (Councillors Gordon/Ekins)

99/22      AMENDMENT moved that Council:
               1.    acknowledges the valuable contribution of our frontline workers at our
                     hospitals and their efforts to keep our community safe during the COVID-
                     19 pandemic.
               2.    also acknowledges that many of our hospital staff have lost their homes
                     and possessions and are very traumatised by the recent floods, yet they
                     have turned up every day for their shifts to ensure that our community
                     has the best nursing care during this catastrophe.
               3.    continues the free parking on Hunter St and Dalziel St in the Hospital
                     precinct and waives restrictions on parking on Weaver St, Laurel Ave,
                     and McKenzie St.
               4.    writes to the Premier, the Minister for Health, and the Member for Lismore,
                     requesting financial reimbursement for Council’s loss of revenue incurred
                     by our support for state employees, and requests immediate
                     implementation of the Stage 2 development of NSW Health’s parking
                     station.
               5.    brings this matter back to Council at the October 2022 meeting for a further
                     decision.

           (Councillors Cook/Rob) (BP22/72)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                  Jensen, Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:        Nil

100/22     On submission to the meeting the amendment became the motion and was
           RESOLVED that Council:
               1.    acknowledges the valuable contribution of our frontline workers at our
                     hospitals and their efforts to keep our community safe during the COVID-
                     19 pandemic.
               2.    also acknowledges that many of our hospital staff have lost their homes
                     and possessions and are very traumatised by the recent floods, yet they



Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                  170
                                                                                 Council Minutes
                                                                                   12 April 2022
                     have turned up every day for their shifts to ensure that our community
                     has the best nursing care during this catastrophe.
               3.    continues the free parking on Hunter St and Dalziel St in the Hospital
                     precinct and waives restrictions on parking on Weaver St, Laurel Ave,
                     and McKenzie St.
               4.    writes to the Premier, the Minister for Health, and the Member for Lismore,
                     requesting financial reimbursement for Council’s loss of revenue incurred
                     by our support for state employees, and requests immediate
                     implementation of the Stage 2 development of NSW Health’s parking
                     station.
               5.    brings this matter back to Council at the October 2022 meeting for a further
                     decision.

           (Councillors Cook/Rob) (BP22/72)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                  Jensen, Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:        Nil




Councillor Adam Guise returned to the meeting, the time being 8:40PM



101/22     RESOLVED that the recommendations set out in items 13.2 and 13.3 be adopted by
           exception.

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Gordon, Hall, Jensen, Krieg
                                  and Rob
           Voting against:        Councillors Ekins and Guise




           13.2 Planning Proposal - Sixth Round of General Amendments LEP 2012

102/22     RESOLVED that Council:
               1.    adopts the planning proposal as outlined in Table 1 of this report and detailed in
                     Attachment 1.
               2.    submits the draft Local Environmental Plan to the Department of Planning and
                     Environment with a request to finalise the proposal in accordance with section
                     3.36 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979.

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/158)

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                  171
                                                                                 Council Minutes
                                                                                   12 April 2022

            Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                   Krieg and Rob
            Voting against:        Councillor Guise




            13.3 Acquisition of Easements for Nimbin Rainbow Road Walking Track

 103/22     RESOLVED that the:
                1.    General Manager be authorised to conduct and finalise all easement negotiations
                      with affected property owners, for the completion of the Nimbin Rainbow Road
                      Walking Track, including payment of any compensation.
                2.    landowners’ costs associated with the easement acquisitions be borne by Council
                      including but not limited to survey, Council fees, reasonable legal, valuation and
                      plan of registration fees.
                3.    seal of Council be affixed to the following documents:
                      a)    Deed of Acquisition
                      b)    Administration Sheet and Plan of Proposed Easements
                      c)    Transfer Granting Easement
                      and any other documents necessary to finalise the acquisition of easements.

            (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/162)

            Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                   Krieg and Rob
            Voting against:        Councillor Guise




Councillor Elly Bird left the meeting, the time being 8:52PM
Councillor Elly Bird returned to the meeting, the time being 8:56PM
Councillor Electra Jensen left the meeting, the time being 8:57PM
Councillor Electra Jensen returned to the meeting, the time being 8:58PM




 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                172
                                                                               Council Minutes
                                                                                 12 April 2022
Reports of the General Manager

104/22     RESOLVED that the recommendations set out in items 14.3, 14.5, 14.8, 14.10, 14.11 and
           14.13 be adopted by exception.

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing)

           Voting for:           Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Gordon, Hall, Jensen, Krieg
                                 and Rob
           Voting against:       Councillors Ekins and Guise




           14.3 Investments - March 2022

105/22     RESOLVED that the report be received and noted.

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/34)

           Voting for:           Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                 Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:       Councillor Guise




           14.5 Transfer of Part Crown Road to Council adjoining 123 Taylor Road, Chilcotts
           Grass

106/22     RESOLVED that:
              1. Council submit an application to NSW Department of Industry requesting part of the
                 Crown Road, as described in this report, be transferred to Lismore City Council.
              2. to meet the criteria of NSW the Department of Industry, the General Manager
                 submits a letter with the application giving consent to the transfer of Crown Road as
                 described in this report.
              3. Council staff coordinate the timing of the Crown Road transfer with a Subdivision
                 Works Certificate for the proposed access road.

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/171)

           Voting for:           Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                 Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:       Councillor Guise




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                               173
                                                                                  Council Minutes
                                                                                    12 April 2022
           14.8 Nimbin Advisory Group Membership Recommendation

107/22     RESOLVED that Council approve the appointment of the following individuals to the
           Nimbin Advisory Group (in alphabetical order):
               1.    Amy-Kate Dillon
               2.    Diana Roberts
               3.    Doug Pinch
               4.    Gwen Trimble
               5.    Megan James
               6.    Michael Balderstone
               7.    Natalie Meyer
               8.    Nicolas Lindner
               9.    Sue Edmonds
               10.   Susan Stock

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/174)

           Voting for:               Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                     Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:           Councillor Guise




           14.10 Access and Inclusion Advisory Group Membership Recommendation

108/22     RESOLVED that Council approve the appointment of the following individuals to the
           Access and Inclusion Advisory Group (in alphabetical order):
               1.    Begona Pretorius
               2.    Brad Lancaster
               3.    Dan Trestrail
               4.    Eden St James
               5.    Jenny London
               6.    John Zambelli
               7.    Julie-Anne Allen
               8.    Lisa Rea
               9.    Louise Frare
               10.   Micheal Daniel Lynch
               11.   Sam Brhaspati Stott

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/176)

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                  174
                                                                                 Council Minutes
                                                                                   12 April 2022

           Voting for:              Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                    Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:          Councillor Guise




           14.11 Sister City Advisory Panel Membership Recommendation

109/22     RESOLVED that Council:
              1. approve the appointment of the following individuals to the Sister City Advisory
                 Panel:
                  •      Dr Ros Derrett OAM
                  •      Daniel Gubby
                  •      Tazuko McLaren OAM
                  •      Patricia Anderson
                  •      Joanne Cooper
                  •      Brandon Yee
              2. thank the unsuccessful applicants for their applications.

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/200)

           Voting for:              Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                    Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:          Councillor Guise




           14.13 Pecuniary Interest Returns

110/22     RESOLVED that the report be received, and the tabled Pecuniary Interest Returns be
           acknowledged.

           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/193)

           Voting for:              Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                    Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:          Councillor Guise




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                 175
                                                                                   Council Minutes
                                                                                     12 April 2022
           14.1 2022 and 2023 Lismore Cup Part Day Public Holiday Application

111/22     DEFEATED that Council make application to the Minister for Employee Relations for
           gazettal of a part day public holiday for part of the Lismore local government area from
           12.00pm to 6.00pm on Thursday 22 September 2022.
           (Councillors Gordon/Bing) (BP22/112)

           Voting for:             Councillors Bing, Gordon, Hall and Krieg
           Voting against:         Councillors Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Jensen and Rob




           14.2 Rates & Charges Hardship Policy

           MOTION moved that:
              1. the ‘Natural Disaster Event’ provisions included in the amended Rates & Charges
                 Hardship Policy (policy number 1.5.11) appearing as Attachment 1 be removed and
                 replaced with the following ‘Natural Disaster Provisions’:

                  Natural Disaster Provisions

                  In the event of a natural disaster (as declared by the Federal Government), the
                  following provisions may apply at the discretion of Council:

                  Section 607 - Council may write off rates and charges and interest accrued on
                  unpaid rates and charges if there is an error in the assessment, or if the amount is
                  not lawfully recoverable, or as a result of a decision of a court, or if the council or
                  the general manager believes on reasonable grounds that an attempt to recover
                  the amount would not be cost effective.

                  Section 610E - Council may waive payment of, or reduce, a fee (whether expressed
                  as an actual or a maximum amount) in a particular case if the council is satisfied
                  that the case falls within a category of hardship or any other category in respect of
                  which the council has determined payment should be so waived or reduced.

                  •      Council may publish a short form Rates, Charges & Fees Hardship
                         Application Form (Natural Disaster) and may amend the requirements relating
                         to provision of supporting documentation at its discretion.
                  •      In relation to rates, charges and fees notices issued in the six months
                         following a natural disaster (or such longer period determined by the General
                         Manager), restrictions relating to sole or principal place of residence and
                         property categorisation as residential for rating purposes do not apply.

               2. Council resolves to place the amended Rates & Charges Hardship Policy on public
                  exhibition for a period of 28 days, and receives and considers submissions from
                  the public prior to further considering the Policy
               3. the interest rate on overdue rates be set at 0% from 1 March 2022 until 30
                   September 2022

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                    176
                                                                                  Council Minutes
                                                                                    12 April 2022
                4. where properties were impacted by the major floods in February and March 2022,
                   accounts for water usage charges be prepared based on average daily usage
                   patterns recorded prior to the major floods, with the Rates & Charges Hardship
                   Policy provisions also available
                5.   any natural disaster hardship applications are managed in line with the guidelines
                     provided in the Office of Local Government Debt Management and Hardship
                     Guidelines (November 2018).

            (Councillors Rob/Bird)

            At this point in time the Mayor ruled the motion out of order according to Section 10.6 of
            the Code of Meeting Practice.

 112/22     RESOLVED that determination of the Rates & Charges Hardship Policy be deferred to
            Council’s May 2022 meeting and legal advice received be provided to councillors before
            the meeting.

            (Councillors Rob/Jensen) (BP22/214)

            Voting for:              Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                     Jensen, Krieg and Rob
            Voting against:          Nil




Councillor Andrew Gordon left the meeting, the time being 9:48PM
Councillor Andrew Gordon returned to the meeting, the time being 9:50PM
Councillor Darlene Cook left the meeting, the time being 9:53PM
Councillor Darlene Cook returned to the meeting, the time being 9:54PM


            14.6 Application to close Public Road - part Uralba Street and Rotary Drive, Lismore

 113/22     DEFEATED that:
               1.     in accordance with Section 38D of the Roads Act, 1993 Council support the
                      application to close the unused road which adjoins 96 Uralba Street, Lismore
                      (being Lot 342 in DP 755718), as shown on the plan included in the report referred
                      to as Excess Road.
               2.     upon closure of the Excess Road, Council sell the land as per the proposal.
               3.     the General Manager be delegated authority to negotiate the final boundaries of
                      the proposed closure and/or easement in favour of Rous County Council to ensure
                      their ongoing access to infrastructure is available.
               4.     the General Manager be delegated authority to negotiate the sale price in
                      accordance with a current valuation prepared by a registered valuer and finalise
                      the settlement.


 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                  177
                                                                                Council Minutes
                                                                                  12 April 2022
               5.     all costs associated with the road closure and sale be met by the applicant. This
                      includes valuation, survey and plan registration fees, legal and Council fees.
               6.     the applicant be required to consolidate the land with their adjoining lot (being
                      Lot 342 in DP 755718), at the earliest opportunity and bear all costs of the
                      consolidation.
               7.     the General Manager be delegated authority to sign the following documents:

                      •    Subdivision Certificate
                      •    Road Closure Plan and s88B Instrument
                      •    Contract for Sale of Land
                      •    Memorandum of Transfer
                      •    Statement of Title Particulars
                      •    and any other documents necessary to implement this resolution.

            (Councillors Bird/Cook) (BP22/172)

            Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Cook and Gordon
            Voting against:        Councillors Bird, Colby, Ekins, Guise, Hall, Jensen, Krieg and Rob




Councillor Elly Bird left the meeting, the time being 10:04PM


            14.7 Lismore City Council Flood Fund Committee

 114/22     RESOLVED that:
               1. the Flood Fund Public Rules be endorsed for signature by the Mayor
               2. a list of the committee members be provided to the Australian Taxation Office once
                  the committee is established

            (Councillors Rob/Cook) (BP22/197)

            Voting for:            Councillors Bing, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall, Jensen,
                                   Krieg and Rob
            Voting against:        Nil
            Absent:                Councillor Bird




Councillor Elly Bird returned to the meeting, the time being 10:06PM
Councillor Big Rob left the meeting, the time being 10:06PM




 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                178
                                                                                 Council Minutes
                                                                                   12 April 2022
            14.9 Aboriginal Advisory Group Membership Recommendation

 115/22     RESOLVED that Council approve the appointment of the following individuals to the
            Aboriginal Advisory Group:
                1.    Brad Walker
                2.    Brandan Harrington
                3.    Denzel Dangerfield
                4.    Gerty Walker
                5.    Jaklyn Hensley
                6.    Jennifer Smith
                7.    Jessie Mullard
                8.    Marie Delbridge
                9.    Mark Tirris
                10.   Naomi Moran
                11.   Natasha Mercy
                12.   Patrick John Anderson
                13.   Tracy King
                14.   Ros Sten

            (Councillors Krieg/Ekins) (BP22/175)

            Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall and Krieg
            Voting against:         Councillors Bing and Jensen
            Absent:                 Councillor Rob




Councillor Big Rob returned to the meeting, the time being 10:10PM


            14.12 Councillor Representative - Nimbin Advisory Group

 116/22     RESOLVED that Council determine the councillor representatives to the Nimbin Advisory
            Group be Councillors Bird, Cook and Rob.

            (Councillors Bird/Rob ) (BP22/215)

            Voting for:             Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Guise, Hall,
                                    Jensen, Krieg and Rob
            Voting against:         Nil



 Lismore City Council
 Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                 179
                                                                                  Council Minutes
                                                                                    12 April 2022

           14.14 Councillor Superannuation Contributions

117/22     RESOLVED that Council resolve to pay the superannuation contribution payment
           from 1 July 2022 in accordance with Section 254B of the Local Government Act
           1993.

           (Councillors Cook/Bird) (BP22/221)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Guise and Krieg
           Voting against:        Councillors Bing, Gordon, Hall, Jensen and Rob




Committee Recommendations

Documents for Signing and Sealing

           16.1 Documents for Signing

118/22     RESOLVED that Council note the following occupancy agreements be executed as
           negotiated under delegated authority by the General Manager:
              A.     Lease to Occupy Lismore Saleyards located at 185 and 201 Lake Street,
                     North Lismore (Lot 1 DP 395451 and Lot 3 DP864899) to Lismore Saleyards
                     Pty Limited (ABN 86 077 202 861) for 5 years with a 5 year option for the
                     permitted use of livestock saleyard and any use ancillary thereto (including
                     impounded stock). (ref: AF12/3760)

              B.     Lease to Occupy Gingerbread House Occasional Childcare Centre located
                     at 35 Uralba Street, Lismore (Lot 1 DP 795661) to Northern Rivers Children’s
                     Services Ltd (ABN 47 209 262 418) for 5 years with a 5 year option for the
                     permitted use of occasional childcare centre and other childcare and family
                     support services. (ref: AF15/2115)

              C.     License to Occupy part of Weston Park located at 5 Reserve Street,
                     Goonellabah (Lot 2 DP 814012) to Johns Lyng Group Limited (ABN 86 620 466
                     248) with terms and fees to be negotiated by the General Manager. The
                     General Manager to also use delegated authority to enter and vary ancillary
                     agreements (if required) to facilitate this project, including but not limited with
                     the Goonellabah Soccer Club, the Roman Catholic Church, adjoining
                     landowners, government agencies and contractors. (ref: AF22/842)

              D.     Renegotiation of Rents in accordance with the Retail and Other
                     Commercial Leases (COVID-19) Regulation (as amended) upon application
                     by impacted lessees. (ref: CDR20/363)

           (Councillors Gordon/Cook) (BP22/93)

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                                   180
                                                                               Council Minutes
                                                                                 12 April 2022

           Voting for:           Councillors Bing, Bird, Colby, Cook, Ekins, Gordon, Hall, Jensen,
                                 Krieg and Rob
           Voting against:       Councillor Guise




Financial Assistance – Section 356

Closure
          This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 10.28pm.

          CONFIRMED this > > 2022 at which meeting the signature herein was subscribed.




          ______________________________

          MAYOR




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 April 2022                                              181
