                                   Council
An Ordinary Meeting of Lismore City Council will be held at the Council
          Chambers on Tuesday, 9 November 2021 at 6pm

                   Members of Council are requested to attend.



Lismore City Council acknowledges the people of the Bundjalung nation, traditional custodians
                              of the land on which we meet.




Michael Donnelly
General Manager

2 November 2021
                    ETHICAL DECISION MAKING AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

A guiding checklist for councillors, staff and community committees

Ethical decision making

   •   Is the decision or conduct legal?
   •   Is it consistent with Government policy, Council’s objectives and Code of Conduct?
   •   What will the outcome be for you, your colleagues, the Council, anyone else?
   •   Does it raise a conflict of interest?
   •   Do you stand to gain personally at public expense?
   •   Can the decision be justified in terms of public interest?
   •   Would it withstand public scrutiny?

Conflict of interest

A conflict of interest is a clash between private interest and public duty. There are two types of conflict:

   •   Pecuniary – an interest that you have in a matter because of a reasonable likelihood or
       expectation of appreciable financial gain or loss to yourself or another person or entity defined in
       part 4 of the Lismore City Council Code of Conduct with whom you are associated.
   •   Non-pecuniary – a private or personal interest that you have that does not amount to a pecuniary
       interest as defined in the Lismore City Council Code of Conduct. These commonly arise out of
       family or personal relationships, or out of involvement in sporting, social, religious or other
       cultural groups and associations, and may include an interest of a financial nature.

The test for conflict of interest

   •   Is it likely I could be influenced by personal interest in carrying out my public duty?
   •   Would a fair and reasonable person believe I could be so influenced?
   •   Conflict of interest is closely tied to the layperson's definition of "corruption" – using public office
       for private gain.
   •   Important to consider public perceptions of whether you have a conflict of interest.

Identifying problems

   •   Do I have private interests affected by a matter I am officially involved in?
   •   Is my official role one of influence or perceived influence over the matter?
   •   Do my private interests’ conflict with my official role?

Disclosure and participation in meetings

   •   A Councillor or a member of a Council Committee who has a pecuniary interest in any matter
       with which the Council is concerned and who is present at a meeting of the Council or Committee
       at which the matter is being considered must disclose the nature of the interest to the meeting as
       soon as practicable.
   •   The Councillor or member must not be present at, or in sight of, the meeting of the Council or
       Committee:

            a.   at any time during which the matter is being considered or discussed by the Council or
                 Committee, or
            b.   at any time during which the Council or Committee is voting on any question in relation
                 to the matter.

No Knowledge - a person does not breach this clause if the person did not know and could not
reasonably be expected to have known that the matter under consideration at the meeting was a matter
in which he or she had a pecuniary interest.
Non-pecuniary Interests - Must be disclosed in meetings.

There are a broad range of options available for managing conflicts & the option chosen will depend on
an assessment of the circumstances of the matter, the nature of the interest and the significance of the
issue being dealt with. Non-pecuniary conflicts of interests must be dealt with in at least one of the
following ways:

   •   It may be appropriate that no action be taken where the potential for conflict is minimal. However,
       Councillors should consider providing an explanation of why they consider a conflict does not
       exist.
   •   Limit involvement if practical (eg. Participate in discussion but not in decision making or vice
       versa). Care needs to be taken when exercising this option.
   •   Remove the source of the conflict (eg. Relinquishing or divesting the personal interest that
       creates the conflict)
   •   Have no involvement by absenting yourself from and not taking part in any debate or voting on
       the issue as of the provisions in the Code of Conduct (particularly if you have a significant non-
       pecuniary interest)

Whilst seeking advice is generally useful, the ultimate decision rests with the person concerned.
Agenda
1.   Opening of Meeting

2.   Acknowledgement of Country

3.   Local Government – Pause for personal reflection

4.   Apologies and Leave of Absence

5.   Confirmation of Minutes of Previous Meeting
     Lismore City Council held 12 October, 2021 .................................................................................. 135
     Lismore City Council held 12 October, 2021 .................................................................................. 151
     Lismore City Council held 25 October, 2021 .................................................................................. 153

6.   Disclosure of Interest

7.   Public Access Session on Agenda Items

8.   Mayoral Minute(s) and Condolence Motions

9.   Notice of Rescission Motions

10. Notice of Motions
     10.1     Red Fleet Vehicles ................................................................................................................. 7
     10.2     Cost Shifting ........................................................................................................................... 9

11. Questions for Next Meeting

12. Altering Order of Business (Consideration of altering the order of business to debate
    matters raised during Public Access)

13. Matters Arising
     13.1     Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and
              Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road Structure Plan and amended public
              lighting provisions ................................................................................................................. 11
     13.2     Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development Control Plan (DCP). ............................... 20

14. Reports of the General Manager
     14.1     DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a service station to a neighbourhood
              shop comprising internal fitout, car parking, landscaping, and associated works. ................. 38
     14.2     Imagine Lismore End of Term Report 2017-2021 ................................................................. 55
     14.3     Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be reclassified as Operational and
              transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information Centre. ................................................ 58
     14.4     Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 1 - July to September 2021 .......................... 73
     14.5     September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review Statement ......................................................... 75

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                                                                     4
    14.6     Write Off Debt - Quarry Sundry Debtor ................................................................................. 83
    14.7     Investments - October 2021 ................................................................................................. 85
    14.8     2020/21 Financial Report ..................................................................................................... 95
    14.9     Recycling and Resource Recovery Strategy 2022-2032 ....................................................... 98
    14.10 Digital Signing of Council Meeting Minutes ......................................................................... 101
    14.11 Annual Code of Conduct Reporting for Lismore City Council .............................................. 103

15. Committee Recommendations
    15.1     Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021 .................................... 108
    15.2     Floodplain Management Committee Minutes - Meeting of 19 October 2021 ....................... 114
    15.3     Planning Review Committee Meeting Minutes 26 October 2021 ........................................ 117
    15.4     Audit Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting - 23 August 2021 ................................... 120

16. Documents for Signing and Sealing
    16.1     Documents for Signing ....................................................................................................... 127

17. Financial Assistance – Section 356

18. Confidential Business
    18.1     Sundry Debtors Accounts Write Off .................................................................................... 134




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                                                          5
Notice of Motions
                                                                                     Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Vanessa Ekins has given notice of intention to move:




That Council:
   1.     write to Premier The Hon Dominic Perrottet, Treasurer The Hon Matt Kean MP, Minister for
          Emergency Services The Hon David Elliott MP, Member for Lismore Janelle Saffin MP and the
          Auditor General outlining Council’s concerns that recognising assets Council has no control
          over, rural firefighting equipment, including red fleet vehicles, will place an unfair financial
          burden on Council.
   2.     forward these concerns to the Local Government NSW conference to lobby on this matter for
          regional and rural councils.



Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
It has come to the attention of Northern Rivers Councils and the Northern Rivers Joint Organisation that
this unquantifiable financial impost is being placed on regional and rural councils. We expect
consultation on this matter and resources to assess the impact on our budgets and ensure appropriate
and ongoing funding is made available from the State Government.

The audit of our financial statements suggested that rural fire-fighting equipment, specifically the red fleet
vehicles, is controlled by the Council and should be recognised in financial statements. This is supported
by the requirements of the Rural Fires Act 1997 and service agreements between councils and the RFS.

The Department of Planning, Industry and Environment (inclusive of the Office of Local Government)
confirmed in the ‘Report on Local Government 2020’ (tabled in Parliament on 27 May 2021) its view that
rural firefighting equipment is not controlled by the NSW Rural Fire Service.

Cost of Implementing
Staff time

Funding Source
Not required

Staff Consulted
Manager Finance

Staff Comment
Manager Finance
The estimated value of the Rural fire-fighting equipment that is required to be recognised by Lismore City
Council is approximately $3.3 million gross and ($2.08) million in accumulated depreciation (this will
need to be confirmed as Council dos not maintain these records). The estimated depreciation impact will
be ($177,000) per year. There are approximately 60 Councils within NSW that currently do not recognise
these assets within their financial reports. It is expected that the recognition of these assets will be
mandated by the Office of Local Government within their Code of Accounting Practice and Financial
Reporting for 2021/22. Council is required to prepare its accounts in accordance with these guidelines
and the Accounting Standards.

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.
                                      Notice of Motion
TRIM Record No: BP21/893:EF19/25-03
                                                                                   Notice of Motion
Notice of Motion
Councillor Eddie Lloyd has given notice of intention to move:




That staff include in the annual budget and the annual audited financial statement to Council a separate
schedule which includes the amounts cost shifted onto Council each year and that the schedule is
itemised into the areas cost shifted, as categorised in the LGNSW survey, and the amounts.


Councillor Comment
Outcome Sought
Cost shifting is where a higher level of government transfers the responsibility and/or cost of providing a
service, concession, asset or function to a lower level of government without the corresponding funding.

Council participate in any future cost shifting surveys conducted by LGNSW.

Cost of Implementing
Staff time

Funding Source
Not required

Staff Consulted
General Manager & Manager Finance

Staff Comment
Manager Finance
The information requested will be included as an attachment to the Council business papers for the
2021/22 Financial Reports and the 2022/23 Operational Plan and/or budgets.


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.

TRIM Record No: BP21/894:EF19/25-03
Matters Arising
                                                                                       Matters Arising
Matters Arising
Subject                 Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
                        Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to
                        include 528 Caniaba Road Structure Plan and
                        amended public lighting provisions
TRIM Record No          BP21/756:EF17/226-03

Prepared by             Strategic Planner

Reason                  To report outcomes of public exhibition of amendments to the DCP Part A
                        Chapter 6 to inclue a Structure Plan for 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba and
                        additional provisions for public lighting for village and large lot residential
                        subdivisions.
Strategic Theme         Our built environment

Strategy                Our land-use planning caters for all sectors of the community.

Action                  Ensure land is available and serviced to meet population growth in locations that
                        are accessible, close to services and employment, and suitable for
                        development.


Executive Summary
On 8 October 2019, Council adopted a Planning Proposal to rezone part of 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba
from Zone RU1 Primary Production to part R5 Large Lot Residential and part E2 Environmental
Conservation to facilitate rural residential development and protection of biodiversity values. This LEP
amendment was subsequently made on 18 June 2021.
On 8 October 2020, for the purposes of public exhibition, Council adopted a draft Structure Plan to
guide the future subdivision of the land for inclusion in the Lismore Development Control Plan (DCP)
Part A Chapter 6 – Village, Large Lot Residential and Rural Subdivision.
Changes were also proposed to Part A Chapter 6 (Element 4.15) planning provisions for public lighting
in response to concerns raised by the public and Councillors regarding conditions placed on
development consents for public lighting of rural residential subdivisions, particularly in the Nimbin
locality. These changes are aimed at preventing and reducing artificial light pollution to minimise
impacts on neighbouring properties and nocturnal wildlife.
In accordance with Section 18 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000, the
amended DCP Part A Chapter 6 including the Structure Plan and changes to Element 4.15 was placed
on public exhibition from 4 October 2021 until 17 September 2021 during which time one (1) public
submission was received in relation to the Structure Plan. Submissions regarding public lighting are
discussed in the report in this Business Paper on the Nimbin DCP.
Table 1 of this report contains a summary of the issues raised in the public submission on the Structure
Plan. A copy of the public submission is provided at Attachment 2. A copy of the amended DCP Part A
Chapter 6 – Village, Large Lot Residential and Rural Subdivision is included at Attachment 1 of this
report.
It is recommended that Council adopt the amendments to DCP Part A Chapter 6 and notifies its
decision in Local Matters in accordance with Section 21 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment
Regulation 2000.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                                          11
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
                                                                                    Matters Arising
Recommendation
That Council:
1.   adopt the amended Lismore Development Control Plan Part A Chapter 6 – Village, Large Lot
     Residential and Rural Subdivision as provided at Attachment 1 of this report.
2.   proceed to give public notice of its decision in Local Matters in accordance with Section 21 of the
     Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000.


Background
On 18 May 2017, a draft Planning proposal was received to rezone 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba (Lot 2,
DP 1073973) from Zone RU1 Primary Production to part R5 Large Lot Residential with no minimum lot
size nominated.

On 8 October 2020, Council adopted the Planning Proposal including the Structure Plan for the purposes
of public exhibition at its meeting and the documentation was forwarded to the Department of Planning
Industry and Environment (DPIE) to make the LEP amendment under delegation. As Council did not
have delegation to make the amendment due to the unresolved objection from the Biodiversity and
Conservation Division of DPIE and the proposed E3 Zone being applied, the LEP Amendment was
subsequently made on 18 June 2021.




                        Figure 1: Zone Map for 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba

The amended Lismore DCP Part A Chapter 6 was placed on public exhibition from 14 August to 17
September 2021 during which time one (1) public submission was received regarding the Structure Plan
to guide the future subdivision of 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                                    12
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
                                                                                   Matters Arising
Public submissions on the public lighting changes were made as part of the review of planning controls
regarding Nimbin village and are addressed in a separate report in this Business Paper on the review of
the Nimbin DCP.

Structure Plan and associated amendments
The Structure Plan is provided at Figure 2. The purpose of the Structure Plan is to guide the future
subdivision of the subject site and ensure that a Vegetation Management Plan (VMP) accompanies the
future development application. The Structure Plan identifies a future pedestrian / cycling link along
Fredericks Road to connect with the planned footpath along Caniaba Road that was a condition of the
adjacent Perradenya Estate development consent. The inclusion of the Structure Plan in Chapter 6 of
the DCP will give the plan the necessary statutory weight to give effect to its objectives.




                      Figure 2: Structure Plan for 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba

An amendment to Element 4.14 – Biodiversity Conservation was also proposed by including additional
provisions at A.38.8 to ensure that a Vegetation Management Plan (VMP) accompanies any future
development application for subdivision at 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba. In particular, an Acceptable
Solution at A38.9 requires that the VMP addresses specific issues such as the rehabilitation of Primary
Koala Habitat, the enhancement of koala movement pathways and the restoration of Dry Rainforest
Endangered Ecological communities.

Public Submission
The public submission to the draft amendment to the DCP is summarised in Table 1 below and provided
at Attachment 2 of this report.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                                 13
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
                                                                                     Matters Arising
Table 1: Summary of Public submission – 528 Caniaba Road
  Issues raised                                Staff response
  The submitter has supplied two plans to      This site plan is inconsistent with the Structure Plan
  develop the site at 528 Caniaba Road,        with regard to:
  Caniaba.                                     • the zoning of the site - the suppled site plan shows
                                                  commercial development on RU1 land which is
  The site plan shows a 1200m² site of            prohibited in this zoning (the LEP definition
  commercial and retail development on the        ‘Commercial premises’).
  corner of Caniaba and Fredericks Roads.      • the proposed lot yield – the proposed lot yield of
                                                  the site is only approximately 14 lots.
  The site plan shows 25 house sites plus an
  additional 21 smaller house sites across the No changes to the Structure Plan are recommended.
  R5 and RU1 land.


Street lighting in Village and Rural Residential subdivisions
The necessity for street lighting to be provided as part of development consents for rural residential
subdivisions surrounding the Nimbin village has been raised with staff by the Nimbin Neighbourhood and
Information Centre (NNIC) and Councillors on behalf of the Nimbin community. The issues of concern
are that the lighting provisions are out of character with and unnecessary in the rural residential setting
with detrimental impacts on the nocturnal wildlife.
To address these concerns, changes to the part of DCP Chapter 6 (4.15 Element: Electricity,
telecommunications and public lighting) that outline the requirements for public lighting at the subdivision
stage were drafted and adopted by Council for public exhibition purposes at the Ordinary meeting in July
2021. These provisions were drafted following research into best practice planning controls designed to
address light pollution and eliminating light spill in dark night skies in other jurisdictions including
Waverley Council in NSW and the Western Australian Planning Commission and in consultation with
Council’s Compliance Co-ordinator.

The additional provisions aimed at preventing and reducing artificial light to minimise impacts on
neighbouring premises and nocturnal wildlife are shown underlined in Table 1 below and apply to
subdivisions in Zone RU5 Village and Zone R5 Large Lot Residential. Public submissions on these
changes were raised as part of the review of planning controls regarding Nimbin village and are
addressed as an issue in a separate report in this Business Paper on the review of the Nimbin DCP.

In response to the submissions and following further internal consultation with development assessment
staff, some post-exhibition additions are proposed as shown in Table 1 underlined in italics below that
are aimed at differentiating between the required provisions in Zone RU5 Village and Zone R5 Large Lot
Residential development settings and clarifying the intent for street lighting. These additions also
respond to issues raised by the community and clarify the rationale for public lighting.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                                     14
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
                                                                                         Matters Arising
Table 1: Proposed new provisions relating to public lighting

Element 4.15 Electricity, telecommunications, and public lighting
 Performance Criteria                                 Acceptable Solutions
 Public lighting                                      Public lighting
 P40 Adequate arrangements are to be made             A40 The design of public lighting is in accordance with:
 for the provision of public lighting to increase     • The relevant Australian Standards;
 safety for pedestrian and vehicular travel.          • NSW Public Lighting Code.


 In the R5 Large Lot Residential zone, street
 light installations are required at intersections,
 cul-de-sacs and any potential points of
 vehicular / pedestrian conflict to ensure a
 high level of safety.

 P41 Public lighting will prevent, limit and          A42 Installation of public lighting will comply with the
 reduce artificial light pollution to minimise        principles of AS4282: Control of the Obtrusive Effects
 nuisance to neighbouring premises and                of Outdoor Lighting.
 disturbance to nocturnal wildlife.
                                                      A43 Public lighting will be designed and selected to
                                                      eliminate light spill in the night sky and avoid over-
                                                      lighting through measures such as bulb shielding,
                                                      projecting light downwards, directing lights away from
                                                      reflective surfaces and using energy efficient bulbs and
                                                      warm white colours.


Comments
Finance
Not required.

Other staff comments
Technical staff provided input into the Planning Proposal and Structure Plan and public lighting
provisions for inclusion in DCP Chapter 6.

Public consultation
DCP Part A Chapter 6 – Village, Large Lot Residential and Rural Subdivision was placed on public
exhibition in accordance with Section 18 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation
2000 during which time one (1) public submission was received in relation to the Structure Plan.
Submissions on public lighting have been addressed in a separate report in this Business Paper on the
draft Nimbin DCP.

Conclusion
On 8 October 2020, Council adopted the draft Structure Plan for 528 Caniaba Road, Caniaba (Lot 2, DP
1073973) for the purposes of public exhibition which occurred in accordance with the Environmental
Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000. The issues raised in the submission received has been
addressed adequately in this report.

Changes have also been included in Chapter 6 for public lighting provisions based on concerns raised
about street lighting in rural residential subdivisions, particularly surrounding Nimbin.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                                         15
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
                                                                                   Matters Arising
It is recommended that the amendments to DCP Part A Chapter 6 are adopted by Council and notified in
Local Matters.

Attachment/s
1.⇨ Attachment 1 Chapter 6 Village, Large Lot Residential and Rural Subdivision and    (Over 7
    Infrastructure                                                                     pages)
2.⇩ Attachment 2 - Public Submission




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                                 16
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
Attachment 2 - Public Submission                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                          17
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
Attachment 2 - Public Submission                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                          18
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
Attachment 2 - Public Submission                                                   Attachment 2




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Amendment to Development Control Plan Part A
Chapter 6 - Village, Large Lot and Rural Subdivision to include 528 Caniaba Road
                                                                                          19
Structure Plan and amended public lighting provisions
                                                                                    Matters Arising
Matters Arising
Subject                  Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
                         Control Plan (DCP).
TRIM Record No           BP21/825:EF20/174

Prepared by              Strategic Planning Coordinator

Reason                   Report to Council on submissions received during the public exhibition of the
                         draft Nimbin Village DCP and related development issues and obtain a
                         resolution to adopt an amended DCP for Nimbin.
Strategic Theme          Our built environment

Strategy                 Our built environment is managed and enhanced to meet the needs of our
                         growing community.
Action                   Ensure new development enhances the area in which it is located.



Executive Summary
Concerns expressed by the Nimbin community in the last 5 or more years about the pace and impact of
new developments in or near the village have led to the current review of the planning controls that
guide future development, in particular the development control plan (DCP) that applies to the Nimbin
village. The DCP has also been the focus for some of the community concerns in recent years and its
review is identified as a short-term action in the Local Strategic Planning Statement adopted by Council
in 2020.
Rather than confine the review to the DCP it was felt that any consideration should be given to all
planning controls and development issues. Following meetings with the Nimbin Advisory Group and
Chamber of Commerce regarding the preferred process to review the DCP and other controls, staff
prepared a discussion paper to accompany a community survey in late 2020. 111 surveys and 9 written
submissions were received.
This feedback led to Council approving amendments to the Nimbin chapter of the DCP for the purposes
of public exhibition at its Ordinary meeting on 13 July 2021. Council also approved an amendment to
street lighting requirements in Part A Chapter 6 of the DCP and the Growth Management Strategy and
resolved to review annually the secure yield of the Nimbin Water Supply.
The draft DCP amendments were on public exhibition from 4 August to 1 October 2021. 23 submissions
were received. A community briefing was held on 9 September 2021 by zoom prior to the end of the
public exhibition period – 30 attended. A councillor briefing was held on 26 October 2021.
This report provides a summary and discussion about the issues raised in the submissions along with
recommendations for amendment of the DCP.

Recommendation
That Council:
    1.     Adopt the amended Lismore Development Control Plan Part B Chapter 6 – Nimbin Village as
           outlined in this report and provided at Attachment 1 of this report.
    2.     Proceed to give public notice of its decision in Local Matters in accordance with Section 21 of
           the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                    20
                                                                                    Matters Arising
Background
Nimbin experienced very little development activity from the 1990s to the early 2010s but more recently,
has seen a (comparatively) significant increase in development applications and activity. Since 2010
several significant subdivisions that are residential or include residential have been approved. Since
2015 (to April 2021) 50 new dwellings (village, rural and large lot residential) have been approved, 34 in
the village.

The Nimbin community has expressed concern that new developments in and near the village are
leading to a loss of the qualities loved by village residents and visitors. The community is also concerned
about the cumulative impact on roads and other infrastructure of new development and the high
numbers of visitors and tourists to the village. In the longer-term Council is committed to undertaking a
detailed master planning exercise for Nimbin when resources are available.

Review of the Nimbin DCP was identified as a short-term action in the Local Strategic Planning
Statement adopted by Council in 2020. Following meetings with the Nimbin Advisory Group and the
Chamber of Commerce regarding the preferred process to review the DCP and other controls, staff
prepared a discussion paper to accompany a community survey.

The scope of the review was focused on the village as defined by the area in Zone RU5 Village as
shown in Figure 1 below, which also shows the areas zoned for large lot residential development.




                     Figure 1: Area of review – Nimbin and surround zone map

Feedback received in response to the community survey led to Council approving amendments to the
DCP for the purposes of public exhibition at its Ordinary meeting on 13 July 2021. The resolution of
Council was:

   1. Council support Amendment No. 32 of the Lismore Development Control Plan to:
       a) Amend Part B, Chapter 6 – Nimbin Village as described in this report and detailed in
          Attachment 3; and

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                    21
                                                                                              Matters Arising
       b) Amend Part A Chapter 6 – Village, Large Lot Residential and Rural Subdivision to insert the
          following Performance Criterion and Acceptable Solutions under Public Lighting in Element
          4.15: Electricity, Telecommunications and Public Lighting
             Public Lighting                                  Public Lighting
             P41 Public lighting will prevent, limit          A41 Installation of public lighting will comply
             and reduce artificial light pollution to         with the principles of AS4282: Control of the
             minimise nuisance to neighbouring                Obtrusive Effects of Outdoor Lighting.
             premises and disturbance to
                                                              A42 Public lighting will be designed and
             nocturnal wildlife.
                                                              selected to eliminate light spill in the night sky
                                                              and avoid over-lighting through measures such
                                                              as bulb shielding, projecting light downwards,
                                                              directing lights away from reflective surfaces
                                                              and using energy efficient bulbs and warm
                                                              white colours.
   2. Council approve the public exhibition of Amendment No. 32 to the Lismore Development Control
      Plan as detailed in 1 above and in accordance with the Environmental Planning and Assessment
      Regulation 2000;
   3. A report be presented to Council with the outcomes of public exhibition and any proposed
      changes as a result of submissions received;
   4. Council remove the potential large lot residential land in Gungas Road/Tuntable Falls Road in the
      upcoming review of the Lismore Growth Management Strategy and amend the Local Strategic
      Planning Statement to exclude the same land from Planning Priority 1;
   5. Council review annually the situation with regard to secure yield of the Nimbin Water Supply and
      the need or otherwise for additional measures to be employed in regard to ensuring future water
      demand within the village of Nimbin can be met whilst ensuring adequate environmental flows
      downstream of the weir.

The draft DCP amendments were on public exhibition from 4 August to 1 October 2021. 23 submissions
were received. These are provided in the second attachment to this report. A community briefing initiated
by the Chamber of Commerce and attended by Council staff was held on 9 September 2021 by zoom
prior to the end of the public exhibition period. It is understood that over 37 people attended the briefing.

Submissions and Recommendations
Issues Raised
Table 1 below provides the summary of the issues raised in submissions along with staff responses and
recommendations for amendment to the DCP.

Table 1: Summary of submissions to draft Nimbin DCP
  Issue                                                        Staff response
  Need for a ‘master plan’                                     •   It is agreed there is a need for a ‘master plan’ as
  • A more expansive master planning exercise is                   the DCP cannot address many of the issues of
     required for Nimbin to cover climate resilience &             concern. The Local Strategic Planning Statement
     adaptation, traffic management, public facilities,            contains an action to complete a Masterplan for
     failing infrastructure, impact of population growth in        the Nimbin village as a short-term priority.
     rural areas, housing, footpath trading & the impacts      •   This project is not currently funded in the budget
     of tourism.                                                   for the 21/22 financial year but can be considered
                                                                   for funding in the 22/23 Council budget.
  Minor changes to Precinct map                                •   Changes are recommended to the Precinct Map
  • Various submissions requested minor changes to                 to include 7 Sibley Street & the tennis courts in
     the Precinct map based on land being owned by                 the community precinct.
     community organisations (ie. Tennis Courts at 106         •   It is not recommended that the map is changed
     Cullen Street), the School of Arts, the Nimbin                for the School of Arts or the Environment Centre
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                                22
                                                                                              Matters Arising
  Issue                                                      Staff response
      Neighbourhood & Information Centre (7 Sibley               as these uses are in the core commercial
      Street), the Nimbin Environment Centre at 54               precinct. However, their location in the
      Cullen St).                                                commercial precinct is noted in the DCP text
  •   Rainbow Power and the Nimbin Community Centre          •   The Precinct map has been changed to reflect
      have requested a minor change to reflect a recent          the recent DA for the boundary adjustment that
      boundary adjustment of their site in Alternative           will result in amended boundary for Rainbow
      Way and identify the land uses as industrial and           Power and 1 new residential lot. The new areas
      residential.                                               are shown as ‘industrial’ and ‘residential’ rather
                                                                 than ‘community’.
  Street lighting – Thorburn Street                          •   Council does not allocate funds for new
  • Request that Thorburn Street be allocated some               streetlights in existing residential areas as a
     more lights – only has 1 light. The street is busy,         routine practice.
     poorly lit, and dangerous.                              •   Staff have registered this issue with the Assets
  • Submitter objects to restrictions on streetlights in         team to consider the need for a budget
     new developments as Nimbin has lack of night                submission to be made to the 22/23 budget so
     lights, making it dangerous. All residential streets        that funds are allocated for additional street
     should have streetlights for safety.                        lighting in Thorburn Street.
  • Preferred option is solar powered lighting               •   There will remain a requirement to provide street
                                                                 lighting in village zones with the proposed
                                                                 changes intended to limit the impact on fauna
                                                                 and the night sky not limit street lighting that
                                                                 provides greater safety.
  Street lighting – rural residential areas                  •   New performance criteria and acceptable
  • Eco-friendly street lighting to preserve amenity of          solutions are recommended for inclusion in DCP
     night sky and to protect wildlife is welcomed               Part A Chapter 6 (Village, Large Lot Residential
  • The installation of street lighting is not appropriate       and Rural Subdivision) for street lighting in village
     in some rural settings ie. Where an island of               / rural residential subdivisions in response to
     lighting in an otherwise unlit landscape is created         feedback received from the community on this
  • Council should decide on suitability of street               issue.
     lighting on case by case basis.                         •   The criteria will be used by DA staff when
                                                                 assessing the appropriate street lighting for
                                                                 future subdivisions. These requirements are
                                                                 proposed to be amended to make the intent for
                                                                 street lighting clear, which is aimed at safety for
                                                                 vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
                                                             •   Note the changes recommended to the
                                                                 publicly exhibited criteria are included in
                                                                 another report in this Business Paper.
  Growth / Growth Management Strategy (GMS)
  • Support for new housing estates as Nimbin suffers        •   There is still land available in the village for
     from lack of housing.                                       further growth.
  • Nimbin should be a growth area and Council’s role        •   There are some areas of Regionally Significant
     should be light not heavy-handed interference.              Farmland to the north east and north west of the
  • Education, health and sewerage services are                  Nimbin village that limit the ability of the village to
     available to cater for growth.                              grow.
  • The availability of non-prime agricultural, flood free   •   There is flood prone land in and around Nimbin.
     land adjoins the village and is ideally suited for          The DCP contains a new map showing flood
     subdivision.                                                prone land in the village zone.
  • The land south of Cecil Street is zoned RU5 and          •   The land south of Cecil Street has been
     not developed. This land is serviced with                   classified as ‘Investigation’ area in the precinct
     sewerage, power and reticulated water.                      map due to constraints on reticulated water
  • This land would merge with the ‘Aquarious Village’           supply.
     and ‘Jarlanbah’.                                        •   On 13 July 2021, Council resolved to remove the
  • Due to large number of approved developments,                potential large lot residential land in Gungas
     support is expressed to remove land in GMS at 50            Road / Tuntable Falls Road in the review of the
     Gungas Rd and 200 Tuntable Falls Road which is              GMS and amend the LSPS to exclude the land
     identified as potential large lot residential.              from Planning Priority 1.
  • A long term sustainable plan should be developed         •   The current GMS does focus future development
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                             Matters Arising
  Issue                                                       Staff response
     within Lismore where the services are already in             areas close to locations with services already in
     place, ie. transport, roads, police, health, shops,          place.
     public land.                                             •   Council has rezoned land for medium density
  • Medium high-rise building provides cleaner air,               housing in the Lismore Health precinct to
     better     standards       of       living,    cheaper       promote more sustainable forms of development.
     accommodation, where more people can live
     comfortably within the Lismore city, providing a
     better place for all stakeholders, business,
     employment, developers.
  Weeds                                                       •   Council adopted a Street Tree Masterplan (STM)
  • Weed species should not be allowed to be planted              in 2008.
     as street trees. Woody weed species should be            •   The STM provides information regarding
     eradicated from the village zone.                            preferred native tree species for new plantings,
  • Recent subdivisions such as Tulsi Lane should not             and the types of trees to be used to replant the
     have environmental weeds such as groundsel                   weed species planted decades ago. Street trees
     bush, privet or giant devil figs allowed to spread on        that are weed species are being removed
     roadsides or gullies.                                        gradually as resources allow.
  • Council      should    integrate       roadside   weed    •   Rous County Council is currently responsible for
     management with roads to avoid existing weed                 assessing and enforcing environmental weed
     problems worse.                                              compliance.
  Protection of trees                                         •   The protection of the mature Eucalyptus Salignas
  • Two mature eucalyptus on Tareeda Way do not                   is currently being investigated by Council’s
     have     adequate     barriers      despite    ongoing       Compliance officer and appropriate action will be
     earthworks.                                                  taken if needed.
                                                              •   These trees have also been included as
                                                                  significant vegetation on a map and in the table
                                                                  in the amended DCP.
  Developer contributions
  • Development funds paid to Council don’t appear to         •   The section 7.11 contributions plan was adopted
     be going back into the community infrastructure.             in 2014. It sets out the works program for
  • Infrastructure is falling to bits under weight of new         infrastructure including community services and
     development and residents moving to the area.                roads. The program drew substantially on the
  • There is no evidence of funds collected for                   Imagine Lismore (Ten Year Plan).
     community facilities and open space being spent in       •   The only identified community facility specific to
     Nimbin – surely where the bulk of funds for the              Nimbin is the community centre and funds
     northern catchment would come from. Not a DCP                collected remain to be spent. Other facilities are
     issue but connected to growth and development.               not in the village and include the CBD plaza/ art
                                                                  gallery / quad project, Lismore Park and Wilson
                                                                  River projects. The Plan anticipated all
                                                                  catchments (both urban and rural) will utilise
                                                                  community services and facilities and the whole
                                                                  LGA is therefore contributing towards the
                                                                  development of community services and
                                                                  facilities.
                                                              •   With respect to roads, contributions are ‘pooled’
                                                                  for the rural areas and allocated based on
                                                                  matters such as road condition and traffic
                                                                  volumes.
  Intersection upgrades                                       •   Intersection upgrades occur when a development
  • Intersections requiring upgrading were identified in          is of a size that generates sufficient traffic to
      the original DCP and extensive development has              necessitate an upgrade or are identified in a
      occurred yet not one intersection has been                  contributions plan.
      upgraded and there is no plan to do so.                 •   The master planning exercise will take a holistic
  • The cumulative impact of development on Sibley                view of the village and test scenarios such as
      Street within the light industry precinct and traffic       making Thorburn Street one way. This is not an
      generated from Alternative Way and new                      issue that can be addressed in the DCP.
      supermarket development will impact Thorburn            •   The developer of the Alternative Way subdivision
      Street. Council could consider making Thorburn              has advised Council staff that a modification
      Street one-way.                                             application will be lodged to amend the road

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                              24
                                                                                                Matters Arising
  Issue                                                        Staff response
  •  Original DA plans of the Alternative Way                      design where it intersects with Cecil Street. The
     subdivision road access to Cecil Street should be             application has not yet been submitted.
     amended so that it intersects with Cecil Street at a
     T-intersection and that significant traffic calming
     devices are installed along Alternative Way.
  Mulgum Creek
  • Mulgum Creek totally stops flowing and dries in            •   Council has allocated funding to construct a new
     sections most spring and summers.                             water treatment plant for Nimbin. This will allow
  • Increasing problems due to town water being taken              Council to be more efficient in the way that water
     from upstream with prolonged dry spring/summer                is used from Mulgum Creek. For example, the
     exacerbating the problem                                      new treatment plant and supply main will remove
  • Increased demand from increased connections (to                the need for Council to flush its supply main to D
     the reticulated system) impacted heavily on native            E Williams Dam to clear out the dirty water this
     fauna including Platypus.                                     after long periods of rain, or heavy rain. Council is
  • It is concerning that Council has planned for more             also looking at alternate water supply options
     connections from the totally decimated creek and              such as through the licence to extract water from
     that environmental flow was never considered                  a bore near the swimming pool.
     when extracting more water.                               •   Council is not the regulatory authority for
  • Submitter has been regenerating creek banks with               waterways in NSW and therefore has no ability to
     help from Council Rural Landholder Initiative. It is          directly regulate how/if or when water is extracted
     devastating to see creek sucked dry for months.               from Mulgum Creek.
  • The only way to ensure more water for town is to           •   Council has a licence to extract water from
     increase storage in town and take less in dry times.          Mulgum Creek for the purposes of supplying
  • The fact that Council has not and still does not               water to Nimbin and follows the terms and
                                                                   conditions of that licence.
     consider environmental flow is a crime, in this
     ‘environmentally aware area’, in the 21st century.        •   What Council can do is seek to minimise the
                                                                   amount of water it does extract from Mulgum
  • Considerations around future water supplies
                                                                   Creek, thus leaving more water available for
     essential and seem to have been addressed.
                                                                   environmental flows.
  • Until shortfalls regarding a secure water supply and
                                                               •   The construction of the new water treatment plant
     returning environmental flows to Mulgum Creek
                                                                   will allow Council to remove or modify some
     have been resolved, it would be detrimental to the
     Village for additional large lot residential                  inefficient maintenance practices and therefore
                                                                   reduce the amount of water extracted from the
     development applications to be approved.
                                                                   creek.
                                                               •   Staff will also explore other opportunities to
                                                                   reduce the need for extraction from Mulgum
                                                                   Creek as the water treatment plant project
                                                                   progresses.
                                                               •   Large lot residential subdivisions are required to
                                                                   provide rainwater tanks for residents’ water
                                                                   supply.
  Water supply issues                                          •   Investigations are currently being undertaken into
  • Council staff should be immediately tasked with                means by which the secure yield of the Nimbin
    seeking an effective means to increase water                   water supply could be increased. This could be
    storage capacity.                                              achieved either through identifying an additional
  • Acknowledge & appreciate the restrictions on water             water source or increasing storage within the
    recommended through the DCP but question the                   water supply system.
    optimism of staff.                                         •   At this stage, the focus of these investigations is
  • Do not advocate bore extraction as a solution to               to determine if an existing groundwater bore,
    additional water source; Council should investigate            located on Council property at the caravan and
    other options either near the existing storage or on           swimming pool site, can provide additional secure
    Falls Road.                                                    yield to service additional demand arising from
  • The DCP provides no clarity around which                       projected growth. Preliminary flow tests
    developments will be eligible for the remaining                undertaken from this bore have been positive and
    reticulated water allotments eg is there reticulated           further tests are now being organised.
    water for investigation precincts or not? Is it first in   •   It is not possible to specify which developments
    best dressed?                                                  will be eligible as Council does not have the
  • Performance criteria for all relevant precincts                ability to require developments to proceed at
    should include water conserving garden design.                 specified times. This means it is ‘first in best
    Swimming pools reliant on reticulated water should             dressed’, which is the reason for conducting
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                              Matters Arising
  Issue                                                        Staff response
      not be a permissible use.                                    annual surveys. Applicants for development
  •   Dual occupancies should be disallowed in the                 would typically discuss their proposals with
      village.                                                     Council prior to submitting a DA at which time the
  •   Detailed technical information about the potability          availability of secure yield can be addressed. The
      of water for human use, monitoring of bore flows,            Council report of 13 July 2021 advised that
      size and boundaries of the Water Basin, and the              ‘based on the secure yield calculation
      likely adverse effects from increased bore activity in       methodology, there is sufficient reserve capacity
      the Lismore LGA.                                             within the water supply to provide for approx. an
                                                                   additional 45 ‘equivalent tenements’, or ET. An
                                                                   ET corresponds to the water demand from a
                                                                   typical detached single dwelling. The use of
                                                                   ‘equivalent tenements’ provides a means of
                                                                   measuring water demand from different forms of
                                                                   development using a common unit of measure.
                                                               •   Additional words are proposed to the
                                                                   performance criterion on landscaping to ensure
                                                                   that water conservation principles are factored
                                                                   into the design of gardens and landscaped areas
                                                                   for development in all precincts.
                                                               •   It is not considered necessary to make dual
                                                                   occupancy a prohibited use in the village as the
                                                                   DCP contains provisions requiring sufficient
                                                                   rainwater tank supply where no reticulated supply
                                                                   is available.
                                                               •   Many of the issues about potable water fall
                                                                   outside the scope of a DCP.
  Water Security Plan                                          •   In 2016, Council commissioned Hydrosphere
  • Strongly urge Council to organise a community                  Consulting to prepare a Drought Management
    engagement process to fully explore options for the            Plan for Nimbin. This Plan will be reviewed in the
    future, educate the community about the severity of            next financial year.
    the water situation & implement options for demand         •   The suggestion for a Water Security Plan that
    management.                                                    would include community engagement and
  • The water rate should increase above a set amount              education programs has merit but is not in
    of water use to penalise large users, such as pool             Council’s current Delivery Program. However, it
    owners, and encourage people to think about their              would be an important issue to consider in a
    water usage.                                                   master planning exercise and could also link to
  • Extend rebates for on all water tanks to existing              the Nimbin Disaster Plan, which focuses on
    residences that can connect to the reticulated                 resilience to disasters including drought.
    system.                                                    •   Demand management measures such as
  • Implement more conservative targets when                       increasing the water rate is an issue to be
    announcing water restrictions during droughts.                 considered in the review of the Strategic Business
  • Stop water tankers from using the Cecil Street,                Plan for Water & Wastewater, which will occur
    Nimbin filling station to supply rural residential             later in this financial year.
    households with tank water.                                •   Council does not currently administer a rebate
                                                                   scheme for water tanks; however, in the past
                                                                   Rous Water has been the responsible authority
                                                                   for administering such a scheme.
                                                               •   The timing of water restrictions during droughts,
                                                                   including access to filling stations, is addressed
                                                                   by the Drought Management Plan, which will be
                                                                   reviewed next financial year.
  Rainwater collection                                         •   The DCP only applies to land within Zone RU5
  • Would it not be prudent to mandate that all                    Village so does not guide development in Zone
     secondary dwellings on R5 Large Lot Residential               R5. Regardless, development in the R5 zone
     blocks not be connected to the town’s reticulated             does not connect to reticulated water but new
     water supply but instead have rainwater collection            housing is required to provide on-site water
     tanks and further to that all houses approved, but            supply ie rainwater tanks.
     not yet constructed, have rainwater collection tanks      •   With regard to using rainwater collection as an
     for watering gardens etc instead of using potable             alternative water source, new Performance
     water? Further to that, when water is required by             Criteria have been included in the DCP for the
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                               26
                                                                                              Matters Arising
  Issue                                                       Staff response
     road works to keep dust down would it not be wise            Residential, Investigation, Live/Work Precincts as
     to also use not potable water?                               follows:
  • Consider rainwater and greywater /sewage water                Where no reticulated water supply is available,
     runoff as urgent matters of concern in cases of              the provision of sufficient rainwater tank supply
     existing and proposed developments to, or adding             for potable water is incorporated into the design.
     on to, Nimbin's "built up" zones.                            Rainwater tank storage with a minimum of 45,000
  • Support the principle of dual occupancy providing             litres capacity per standard dwelling is to be
     tanks for the second dwelling but a more equitable           supplied to provide an adequate potable water
     approach might be for dwellings to provide tank              supply.
     storage dependent on density of development ie 2         •   While this idea has merit when attempting to
     1–2-bedroom dwellings could have the same or                 calculate the demand of new development on the
     less impact than a 4-bedroom house with extensive            water supply, an ‘ET’ (equivalent tenement)
     gardens relying solely on reticulated water supply.          corresponds to the water demand from a ‘typical
     The ET for both developments could be the same               detached single dwelling’. This definition does not
     but one is required to provide on-site water                 specify the number of bedrooms or occupants
     storage.                                                     that make up a typical single dwelling.
  Cullen Street Beautification                                •   It is anticipated that the Masterplan for Nimbin
  • It’s positive to see the plan retained in the DCP. It         would include an update of the Beautification Plan
     would be great to see it further progressed as no            and a plan for its implementation.
     work has been done on main street beautification         •   Street tree plantings and location will also be part
     for over 10 years.                                           of the master plan.
  • There have been spontaneous and inappropriate
     plantings over the years, due to the absence of a
     coordinated approach, plantings which have
     subsequently involved expensive removal and
     generated objections as shade and ambience
     disappears with a chain saw.
  Western Car Park                                            •   This comment is noted and acknowledged. The
  • Pedestrian access from the car park to Cullen                 DCP has been silent on who and how these
     Street, formalising right of ways, properly retaining,       matters will be undertaken. Implementation,
     and landscaping the eastern batter in the western            including funding, would be an issue the
     car park and tree planting have been in the                  Masterplan process along with appropriate
     planning since the car park was constructed.                 landscaping embellishments for the Western
  • The car park is often the first encounter of Nimbin           Carpark.
     for many visitors. It is important to have a unified     •   The Nimbin Parking Strategy identifies an area to
     planning approach to landscaping architecture                the south of the Western Car Park on School
     throughout the car park.                                     land. This area can be noted in the DCP. The
  • A preferred location to acquire land to meet future           funding for this extension remains an issue. The
     car parking needs has been identified and should             Department of Education is yet to advise of its
     be included in the DCP.                                      disposal plans. The Parking Strategy also notes
                                                                  that car parking needs should be reviewed when
                                                                  developments such as The Cubes & the ‘museum
                                                                  site’ occur.
  Pedestrian and cycleway facilities                          •    A map showing existing pedestrian and cycling
  • There is no obvious integration for new or existing            facilities was initially removed in the DCP that
     development. In fact, cycleways and footpaths do              was placed on public exhibition; however, this
     not seem to appear anywhere in the DCP.                       map has been reinstated.
  • If they are to be subject to future planning this         •    Council is currently preparing a Walking and
     should be mentioned by way of explanation. If not,            Cycling Strategy that includes Nimbin. This Plan
     preferred networks should be built in.                        will contain an implementation plan for the future
  • Cycling and walking pathways should be included                funding of walking and cycling trails.
     along Alternative Way and Cecil Street and Sibley
     Street leading out of the village towards Gungas
     Road due to the proliferation of residences.
  Commercial precinct                                         •   The LEP definition of ‘Entertainment Facilities’
  • Entertainment facilities are a new inclusion under            includes uses such as a theatre, cinema, music
     preferred land use. We would suggest that this               hall, concert hall, dance hall but not a pub or
     needs some explanation given the impact on                   registered club. These uses appear to be
     previous live music entertainment venues following           appropriate in the commercial precinct and any
     complaints from neighbours.                                  DA would be placed on public exhibition to give
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                                27
                                                                                             Matters Arising
  Issue                                                      Staff response
  •   The DCP also does not currently identify preferred         the community a chance to make a submission
      use precincts for monthly and weekly markets.              about any amenity impacts such as noise.
      Currently they are held in the commercial precinct     •   In the LEP, ‘markets’ fall under the umbrella
      and the community precinct.                                definition of commercial (and retail) premises
                                                                 which is listed in the preferred land uses for the
                                                                 commercial village precinct. Markets would be
                                                                 viewed as a preferred land use in this precinct
                                                                 and will be noted as a preferred use in the
                                                                 community precinct.
  Light Industry Precinct                                    •   The light industry precinct is largely either
  • An objective of the light industry precinct should be        developed or there is an approved development
     minimising the impact of traffic movement on                that would have considered traffic generation.
     Thorburn Street by avoiding high traffic generating     •   Water availability will be an ongoing issue for all
     industry.                                                   uses. Additional words are recommended in the
  • Preferred land uses identify water intensive uses            DCP to note that on-site water supply should be
     such as garden centres and plant nurseries. While           considered for water intensive uses such as
     admirable uses water needs to be supplied from              nurseries.
     non-reticulated purposes.
  Investigation Precinct                                     • This is noted.
  • We support the principle of investigation zones          • Council is currently preparing an Affordable
     providing their own water and this being spelt out in     Housing Strategy that will investigate the options
     the DCP.                                                  available to Council to encourage affordable
  • Within a new residential development is it an option       housing options. The strategy will consider the
     for Council to prescribe that a certain percentage of     merits of an Affordable Housing Contributions
     a proposed development be set aside for low-cost          Scheme – this appears to be only way to prescribe
     housing? Or require collaboration with social             contributions.
     housing NGOs? Or provide incentives for                 • The DCP would not be able to prescribe
     developing low-cost housing? Creative solutions           collaboration with social housing NGOs; however,
     need to be found given the housing crisis we are          existing community housing providers are aware of
     facing (compounded by Covid and rising prices)            the need for more social / affordable housing in
     and the incredible need for social housing.               Nimbin.
  Community uses
  • Happy about the future of the Rainbow Road track,        This is noted.
     an emphasis on keeping the community feel of the
     village and a future vision for plantings and
     consideration of streetscape.
  • Preferred uses in the community precinct should
     recognise there are commercial uses conducted in
     the community precinct.
  • With regard to section 2.6 and 2.6.1, why is             The word ‘Religious’ has been removed from the land
     ‘Religious’ ruled out and ‘Place of Worship’ ruled      uses comprising the Community precinct because
     out as a preferred use?                                 none of the existing churches are located in this
                                                             precinct.

                                                             Although the land use ‘Places of public worship’ was
                                                             removed as a preferred use in the Community
                                                             Precinct, this land use remains a permissible use in
                                                             the Village Zone.
  7 Sibley Street
  • 7 Sibley Street (Nimbin’s Sustainable Living Hub) is     •   A change has been made to show this site as
     community owned so should be placed into the                ‘community’ rather than ‘commercial’ in the
     Community precinct.                                         Precinct map. The Sustainable Living Hub is also
  • 7 Sibley should be removed from the Heritage                 referenced in new section 2.6.1.
     Conservation Area for the aims of the Sustainable       •   To remove the property from the Heritage
     Living Hub to be included in the DCP so that                Conservation Areas there would require a
     ecologically sustainable development principles             heritage assessment to justify its removal. Then
     override heritage considerations. Alternatively, the        an LEP amendment would need to be
     aims of the Sustainable Living Hub should be                undertaken. Staff do not recommend this course
     referred to and considerations relating to ecological       of action. Instead, staff agree with the alternative
     sustainability given the highest priority.                  suggested in the submission that additional text
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                               28
                                                                                           Matters Arising
  Issue                                                     Staff response
                                                                be included in the DCP in the Community
                                                                Precinct ie. that sustainable development
                                                                principles be given priority over heritage
                                                                principles.
  Rainbow Road Walking Track
  • Refer to ‘Rainbow Road’ as a track not a trail and      •   The term ‘trail’ has been changed to ‘track’ on the
      include an objective that relates to the tourism          Precinct map.
      value of the project and community land in general.   •   It is agreed that the tourism value of the project
  • An objective should be added that relates to the            should be acknowledged and will be inserted as
      tourism value of the project and community land in        an objective in the community precinct.
      general e.g. to add to the visitor experience         •   Extinguishing the right of way is outside the scope
      through the provision of a high-quality tourism           of the DCP and will be considered during the
      product that showcases village culture.                   implementation of the Rainbow Road Walking
  • Request support of LCC to extinguish an existing            Track.
      right of way as a new one will be established with
      the walking trail.
  Protection of Significant Vegetation                      • The table in the DCP has recently been updated;
  Should this table recognise the heritage listed grounds     however, this did not include a survey of significant
  within Nimbin Community Centre, 81 Cullen Street? A         vegetation throughout the entire village.
  botanical survey of 81 Cullen Street has identified and   • 81 Cullen Street has been included on the map and
  recorded all vegetation. There is also some significant     the table.
  vegetation on 11a Alternative Way, planted as part of a   • It is considered that further community engagement
  koala food corridor in the early 1990s.                     during the Masterplan project will include an
                                                              examination of significant vegetation in the village.
  Heritage                                                  • The Lismore Local Strategic Planning Statement
  • Council’s heritage study was undertaken in the            contains action A4.5 to update the Lismore
      1990s and is due for review.                            Heritage Study as a long-term action. The heritage
  • Two developments come to mind where strongly              provisions for Nimbin will be included in the scope
      held community opinions were discounted by              of this project.
      “experts” and Council staff. There is no point        • It is not proposed to provide a review of the 2
      having a DCP that says subject to public exhibition     developments as these have been discussed at
      when the opinions that are reflected in the public      length elsewhere.
      exhibition process reflecting community views are
      discounted.                                           • Council staff assess development in accordance
                                                              with the provisions of the LEP, DCP and the
  • Laneways – a point of contention. The fire site
                                                              Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979,
      laneway redevelopment was requiring a heritage
                                                              which requires that public submissions are
      look to buildings along the laneway from staff
                                                              considered.
      whereas the proposed “Cubes” development saw
      glorified containers and fencing in full view on      • It is considered there is sufficient protection for
      exiting the western car park approved alongside         heritage in the LEP and the DCP and no changes
      the removal of a very “cute” house on the main          are proposed.
      street.
  • At the rear of buildings on the western side of
      Cullen Street containers have been approved for
      cheap on-site storage. It’s a dog’s breakfast look
      approved by Council in a heritage conservation
      zone. The DCP needs to provide far greater
      direction around heritage provisions than is
      currently the case and community opinion needs to
      be given much greater sway.
  Flood affected areas                                      This is noted. The indicative flood hazard mapping
  • The flood hazard analysis gives only a broad            will not restrict the ability of the Rainbow Road
    indication. Some of the area of the Rainbow Road        walking track to be constructed.
    walking track identified as medium flood hazard is
    actually not directly affected by flooding.
  • Construction of a walking track across 11a
    Alternative Way should be guided by on ground
    observation at the time of recent flood rains which
    were close to the 1-in-100-year event (November
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                             29
                                                                                                Matters Arising
  Issue                                                          Staff response
    2020) and not refined and expensive modelling
    plans. It is a small catchment and provision of the
    dam has the effect of slowing and controlling water
    release, which should be acknowledged.

  Climate change and sustainability                              •   The role of a DCP is to provide specific
  • It is not clear how the DCP addresses climate                    development criteria to guide development. As
       change and sustainability.                                    such, the DCP contains broad objectives to
  • Decision-making decision will be manifestly                      encourage sustainable development including:
       unreasonable if it does not take climate change into           ➢ the conservation of environmental values
       account. At a minimum, Council should minimise                 ➢ the avoidance of environmentally sensitive
       development in highly vulnerable areas. Nimbin                      areas
       has major issues within its catchment, as the ability          ➢ the protection of significant vegetation
       of the soil cannot hold water, due to its unusual              ➢ the promotion of ecologically sustainable
       rhyolite rock deposition.                                           development.
  • The area around Nimbin has over 14,000                       •   It is proposed to insert commentary regarding
       inhabitants. Nimbin appears to be small but the               climate change in the introduction to the DCP and
       number of people living in the area has placed                insert a new objective to promote development
       great strain on the environment for water, energy,            that will enhance climate change resilience. It is
       communications, ecosystems.                                   not clear at this time what other DCP provisions
  • Development in Nimbin and greater Nimbin area                    will address climate change impacts.
       should be stopped as the climate is no longer             •   In March 2020, Council adopted a Climate
       predictable varying from extremely hot and dry to             Change Resilience Policy and has commenced
       wet cyclonic. The availability of water is intermittent       preparing a Climate Resilience & Adaptation
       and scarce at times. The populations in the village           Strategy which will consider land use issues and
       and surrounding areas support all the facilities and          the tools available to Council through the planning
       businesses in Nimbin village and there is no need             system.
       for extra population to keep them viable.                 •   As noted elsewhere, the master planning exercise
  • Council must ensure they keep up to date with                    should consider climate resilience as a key issue
       general climate change science and information                for the village.
       related to mitigation and adaptation strategies and
       information particular to their specific local
       government area
  Non-preferred uses                                             • Each precinct contains objectives and a list of
  It is suggested that a development application for a             ‘preferred uses’. A clause in the introduction to all
  non-preferred land use should only be considered                 precincts provides that ‘a development application
  where it can be demonstrated that there is no suitable           for a non-preferred land use should only be
  land available within the preferred precinct and there is        considered where it can be demonstrated that
  a community need for the development.                            there is no suitable land available within the
                                                                   preferred precinct’.
                                                                 • It could be difficult to gauge whether there is a
                                                                   community need for a particular development
                                                                   because community views can vary significantly
                                                                   depending on the issues involved. The public
                                                                   exhibition process is the mechanism by which the
                                                                   community can raise issues with Council about
                                                                   particular development applications.
                                                                 • Rather than refer to ‘community need’, it is
                                                                   recommended that additional words are added to
                                                                   ensure that a ‘non-preferred’ use is still consistent
                                                                   with the objectives for a particular precinct.
  Rural Landsharing Communities                                  • The GMS will be amended to remove a future
  • Is council taking into account the large population            area proposed in Gungas Road for the reasons
    growth outside the village precinct from future                highlighted in the submission.
    developments, sub-divisions and in particular Rural          • The Growth Management Strategy contains a
    Landshare Communities and the cumulative impact                section regarding the demand and supply of Rural
    they will have on the village infrastructure and               Landsharing       Community         housing      and
    amenities?                                                     recommends that the land suitable for this type of
  • Rural Land share Communities according to the                  development as identified in the corresponding
                                                                   LEP map be reduced.
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                            Matters Arising
  Issue                                                      Staff response
    SEPP can be established anywhere within 4km of a         •   The amendment to the LEP was not progressed
    school, hall, shop or other established community of         due to concerns from Councillors about the extent
    certain size, which means pretty much anywhere.              of the area.
                                                             • There has been only 1 new DA approved for
                                                                 RLSC in the past 5 years.
  The Koala Plan of Management (KPoM)                        Lack of resources is not simply an excuse. Extending
  The KPoM was always intended to be extended to the         the KPoM beyond its current boundaries is a
  North Western part of the shire. The excuse of             significant undertaking and Council simply does not
  finances is not acceptable as it is not a financial        currently have the resources. Additionally, there is a
  exercise but a legislative change. We have already         lack of clarity in current state legislation and this
  seen the loss of primary koala feed trees in Alternative   needs to be resolved before funding can be sought to
  Way for the spread of development. This is exactly         prepare a new KPoM.
  what the KPoM was designed to stop and is far more
  effective than SEPP 44. When Councils don’t have the
  will to act to help save Koalas then we have a
  legislative tool that will step in and do what is right.
  Please extend the KPoM to cover all of Lismore LGA,
  including Nimbin.
  Public toilet                                              The Nimbin Advisory Group has raised the need for
  Council must progress planning for an all-season toilet    an amenity block in this location with Council’s
  / change room block in the public park (known as           Assets section which is considering grant funding
  Peace Park).                                               opportunities to fund this proposal.


Summary of recommended DCP amendments
Recommendations in response to the matters raised by submissions are included in the Table above.
Some minor issues identified by staff relating to DCP editing or omissions have also been identified. For
ease of review, the following provides a summary of all recommended changes. The amended chapter is
provided as an attachment to the report.

Precinct Map
• Amend the Precinct Map to include 7 Sibley Street and the tennis courts at 106 Cullen Street in the
   Community Precinct as shown on Figure 2 below.
• Amend the Precinct map to reflect the recent DA for the boundary adjustment of two (2) existing lots
   to create three (3) lots, specifically: 1) to create an additional village (residential) lot; and 2) to
   increase the size of the Rainbow Power Company lot. The changes are included in Figure 2 below.
• Amend the Precinct Map to include the land north of Mulgum Creek in the Investigation Area. This
   land is not mapped in the existing DCP but is included in the RU5 Village zone. This land is highly
   constrained by flooding and is unlikely to support new development.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                             31
                                                                             Matters Arising




                       Figure 2: Proposed Amendment DCP Precinct Map




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                      32
                                                                                Matters Arising
Map of pedestrian / cycleway links, significant vegetation & expansion of carpark
A map showing existing pedestrian and cycling facilities was initially removed in the DCP that was
placed on public exhibition. It is recommended that the map is reinstated and in addition to showing
pedestrian and cycleway links, it shows significant vegetation, the Rainbow Road Walking Track and the
potential future expansion of the western carpark. Figure 3 below is the recommended amended map.




                Figure 3: Proposed Map – links, vegetation, and carpark expansion


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                33
                                                                                       Matters Arising
Amendments to DCP Text
Below are changes recommended to the DCP text.
• In the Introduction to the Chapter insert ‘The Nimbin community is strongly committed to utilising the
   best available science to respond, adapt and build resilience to climate change risks and their impact
   on social, cultural and ecological systems and mitigating potential risks.
• Insert a new objective in section 1.2, ‘To promote development that will enhance climate change
   resilience’.
• Amend section 2 Village Precincts to provide that, ‘a development application for a non-preferred
   land use should only be considered where it can be demonstrated that there is no suitable land
   available within the preferred precinct, provided that the ‘non-preferred’ use is consistent with the
   objectives for the precinct.
• Amend section 2.1.1 to provide that water conservation principles and measures are incorporated
   into garden and landscaping design.
• Amend section 2.2 Investigation Area to refer to the Investigation Area south of Mulgum Creek as
   highly constrained flood prone land that is unlikely to support new development.
• Amend clause 2.4 Commercial Precinct to note the location of the School of Arts and the Nimbin
   Environment Centre as community uses in the Commercial Precinct.
• In the section titled ‘Cullen Street Beautification and Western Car Parking Area’ note the potential
   future expansion of the western car park in accordance with the Nimbin Parking Strategy and as
   shown on Figure 3 above.
• In section 2.6 Community Precinct note that there are a range of established commercial uses
   conducted in the community precinct and include ‘markets’ as a preferred use.
• Insert a new section 2.6.1 as follows:
    Section 2.6.1 Sustainable Living Hub
    The Community Precinct includes land at 7 Sibley Street which is owned by the Nimbin
    Neighbourhood and Information Centre and being developed as a Sustainable Living Hub with the
    aim of sharing skills and promoting all aspects of affordable housing and sustainable living. A
    concept Masterplan for the progressive development of this Hub has been prepared for this land and
    part of the adjoining Peace Park at 9 Sibley Street. The scope of the Masterplan may change over
    time.
    Sustainable Development Objectives
    7 Sibley Street is included in the Heritage Conservation Area, which leads to heritage conservation
    considerations for future development. These considerations for the Sustainable Living Hub should
    reflect the evolution of the alternative lifestyle movement that has had and continues to have a
    substantial and positive influence on the Village. While the ‘timber and tin’ building on the land will be
    retained, it is intended that the heritage conservation objectives for development in the Commercial
    Precinct will not outweigh objectives for ecologically sustainable development in the Sustainable
    Living Hub that includes demonstrating the use of alternate building materials and technologies that
    are ecologically sustainable.
•   In section 2.6.2 Rainbow Road Walking Track include an objective, ‘To add to the visitor experience
    through the provision of a high-quality tourism product that showcases village culture through the
    Rainbow Road Walking Track and community precinct generally.’
•   Amend section 3.2 Table 1 to include additional vegetation nominated by the community at 81 Cullen
    Street and Tareeda Way and cross-reference to new Figure 6.
•   In section 3.3 Village Infrastructure – All Precincts, insert reference to the new Figure 6 and include
    reference to the Walking and Cycling Strategy that is currently underway.

Comments
Finance
Not required.

Other staff comments
Development assessment staff were consulted during the preparation of the draft DCP.
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                       34
                                                                                     Matters Arising
Assets Manager
Planning for relevant infrastructure to support future development is clearly an important part of the
process in review of a DCP. The community responses, both written and at the community meeting held
as part of the process, have included specific concerns about the need for appropriate infrastructure to
support current and future development in the village.

There has been considerable feedback about water supply and water security into the future, including
commentary about improving environmental flows in Mulgum Creek. Responses to the specific feedback
received have been included in the table above.

The matter of secure water yield for the yillage has generated a lot of discussion and feedback from the
community. Secure yield is a theoretical calculation and is a measure of how many properties can be
supplied with water under severe drought conditions.

Whilst there is currently a theoretical predicted shortfall of approximately 40-50 ET should all approved
development within the village proceed, it needs to be remembered that there is also approx. 45 ET still
available. The rate at which this capacity is taken up is entirely dependent upon how quickly property
owners choose to proceed with development on their land. Based on current and historical rates of
development, this could be anywhere between 4-10 years.

Council will be reviewing the Strategic Business Plan for Water and Wastewater in 2022. An assessment
of the issues around security of the water supply in Nimbin will be part of that process, including a review
of the drought management plan for Nimbin. Matters to be considered as part of that process include:

    •    Continuing investigations into alternate water sources including ground water and connection to
         Rocky Creek Dam.
    •    Modifying the drought management plan to introduce water restrictions earlier than currently
         planned.
    •    Reviewing current practices around access to the Nimbin Water supply for bulk water suppliers
         and construction purposes.
    •    Increasing education activities to raise awareness of water conservation issues.
    •    Reviewing maintenance practices associated with the existing water supply network and
         proposed water treatment plant to identify and implement opportunities to reduce water usage
         from ongoing operational and maintenance activities.

Public consultation
This project commenced with a community survey in 2020, which led to amendments to Part B Chapter
6 of the DCP being drafted and publicly exhibited. The draft DCP amendments were on public exhibition
from 4 August to 1 October 2021. 23 submissions were received. The matters raised by submitters are
summarised in this report and staff responses and recommendations made.

Conclusion
The current review of the planning controls that guide future development in and near Nimbin,
particularly the Nimbin Village DCP, commenced with the release of a discussion paper and community
survey in late 2020.
The feedback received in the surveys and written submissions led to Council approving amendments to
the Nimbin chapter of the DCP for the purposes of public exhibition at its Ordinary meeting on 13 July
2021. Council also approved an amendment to street lighting requirements in Part A Chapter 6 of the
DCP and the Growth Management Strategy and resolved to review annually the secure yield of the
Nimbin Water Supply.
The draft DCP amendments were on public exhibition from 4 August to 1 October 2021, during which
time 23 submissions were received. This report has provided a summary and staff review of the issues
raised in the submissions along with recommendations for amendment of the DCP.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                                     35
                                                                             Matters Arising
It is recommended that the revised DCP Part B Chapter 6 Nimbin Village attached to this report is
adopted by Council.


Attachment/s
1.⇨    Attachment 1 - Nimbin Village DCP adopted (Over 7 pages)
2.⇨    Attachment 2 - Public submissions         (Over 7 pages)




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Submissions to draft Nimbin Village Development
Control Plan (DCP).
                                                                                           36
Reports of the General
Manager
                                                                                                  Report
Report
Subject                 DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
                        service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising
                        internal fitout, car parking, landscaping, and associated
                        works.
TRIM Record No          BP21/802:DA21/132

Prepared by             Development Assessment Officer - Planning

Reason                  Reported to Council for determination at Councillors' request

Strategic Theme         Our built environment

Strategy                Our built environment is managed and enhanced to meet the needs of our
                        growing community.
Action                  Ensure new development enhances the area in which it is located.



Executive Summary
Council has received a Development Application (DA) for a proposed Change of Use of a
decommissioned service station for the purpose of a neighbourhood shop and associated fit out, car
parking, landscaping and associated works.

The development proposes to be located across two parcels of land known as 426 and 428 Ballina
Road Lismore Heights and or Lot 6 and 7 in DP17608. The site is zoned R1 General Residential,
neighbourhood shops are permissible with development consent.

Due to the prior use as a service station, the site was declared significantly contaminated under the
Contaminated Land Management Act 1997 by the NSW Environment Protection Authority (EPA) in June
2016. A Voluntary Management Proposal (VMP) was entered into by the landowner with the EPA which
has been substantially completed. The VMP coupled with proposed conditions, provide that the land is
suitable for the proposed use and satisfies the requirements as specified under clause 7 of SEPP 55.

Following the public exhibition of the neighbourhood shop, correspondence to adjoining owners and
those within the nearby vicinity, 4 submissions objecting to the proposal were received. The main issues
of objection being land contamination, traffic generation and access, and social implications resultant of
alcohol sales.

As a part of a Community Impact Statement undertaken by the applicant, a Notice of Intention was
served to all properties within 100m and other stakeholders, with no submissions received as a result.

The assessment of the subject application has identified and addressed various elements including land
contamination, traffic generation and access, and social implications under specific titles throughout the
report.

The neighbourhood shop development upon conclusion, has been determined to generally be in
accordance with the relevant legislation and accordingly is recommended for approval subject to the
draft conditions of consent.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                    38
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                  Report
Recommendation
That Development Application No. 2021/132 for the Change of Use from a Service Station to a
neighbourhood shop comprising an internal fitout, car parking, landscaping and associated works be
approved subject to the imposition of draft conditions as found in Attachment 1 - Proposed Conditions of
Consent.


Background
The site was previously operating as a Shell/Coles Express Service Station, Council’s records provide
the following Development Application history.




Since the closure of the service station in 2018, remediation works have been continuously undertaken
to remediate the site contamination. The demolition of the service station canopy (DA18/424) was to
facilitate suitable safe access to underground storage tanks which have actually been removed.

This application has been reported to Council for Determination following a request from Councillors.

Description of Proposal
The proposed development comprises the change of use of an existing decommissioned service station
building for the purposes of a neighbourhood shop.

The proposed works comprise the demolition of an awning at the western side of the building and the
removal of the eastern roller door and existing internal walls. Building renovations includes new walls
and infill of the existing roller door for the installation of a cool room and partitioning from the shop.

13 car parking spaces are afforded incorporating 11 customer car parking spaces with an accessible
space, plus another two for staff car parking.

The neighbourhood shop is intending to offer general merchandise to meet the day to day needs of
residents, with 32m² or 28% of the total floor area of the store being allocated for the sale of alcohol
products. See Attachment 2 - DA Plans - 426 Ballina Road LISMORE HEIGHTS 2480 for detail.

The proposed neighbourhood shop is intended to operate from 10am to 11pm Monday to Saturday and
10am to 10pm Sundays.

The Site
The subject site is located on the northern side of Ballina Road Lismore Heights approximately 70
metres south-east of High Street and 2.7 km’s east of Lismore Central and zoned as R1 General
Residential. The subject site comprises two parcels identified as 426 and 428 Ballina Road Lismore
Heights having a combined area of 1618m2.

The site is a former service station which is currently declared as ‘significantly contaminated’ land under
the Contaminated Land Management Act 1997. Management of site contamination via a Voluntary
Management Proposal (VMP) was entered into by the property owner with the EPA, the VMP has been
substantially completed.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                    39
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                  Report
Adjoining development consists of a Post Office and a dis-used general store to the west, with residential
dwellings in all other directions. The topography of the site is flat. Access is proposed off Ballina Road.

Locality Map




Statutory Controls
Lismore LEP 2012
•    Zoning – R1 General Residential
•    Item of Heritage – No
•    In vicinity of Heritage Item – No
•    Flood Planning Mapping – No
•    Acid Sulfate soils – No
•    Drinking Water Catchment - Yes

Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979
Protection of the Environment Operations (Underground Petroleum Storage Systems) Regulation 2019
State Environmental planning policy No. 55 – Remediation of Land
State Environmental Planning Policy (Vegetation in Non-Rural Areas) 2017
State Environmental Planning Policy (Koala Habitat Protection) 2019
State Environmental Planning Policy No. 64 – Advertisement and Signage
State Environmental Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                    40
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                 Report
Internal Referrals
Set out below is a summary of each of the relevant referral officer’s comments. A full copy of each of the
referral comment reports are included in Attachment 3 - Council Referral Officers Reports.

Building / Environmental Health / Engineering / Water and Sewer
The application has been reviewed by each of these sections and comments provided, with no
objections raised subject to the imposition of appropriate conditions that are included in the draft
conditions attached to this report.

The issues addressed within the referral comments from the respective officers included, but was not
limited to building code requirements, fire safety measures, environmental aspects, land contamination,
noise impacts, vehicular access, traffic impact, parking, stormwater, Section 64 Levies, sewer and water
connection requirements.

Traffic Advisory Committee (TAC)
A referral to the TAC was provided in relation to the subject development application requesting
comment on the proposal. Specifically, the TAC was requested to consider a request for a proposed No
Stopping Zone between the ingress and egress of the site on Ballina Road to provide a safer egress
from the site onto Ballina Road.

Committee Members determined at the April TAC meeting, this had merit and recommended that
Council support the proposal to install a No Stopping Zone as part of the subject DA. In the May General
Council Meeting, Council resolved that TAC39/21 4.3 Request for No Stopping Zone - 426 Ballina Road,
Lismore Heights - DA21/132 for Neighbourhood Shop be deferred and included in the development
application for this location when it comes to Council.

Community Services
Upon request the subject DA submitted a Community Impact Statement that was referred to Council’s
Community services Coordinator to provided further comment on the social consideration of the
application. The following comments were provided:
   • A neighbourhood shop would be a good addition to Lismore Heights. Lismore Heights historically
       had several small local shops, but over the past 6-13 years have since closed.
   • Lismore Heights has University accommodation on Ross Street, Kellas Street and Dixon Place,
       with public housing in William Blair Drive and scattered through Lismore Heights. Access to
       alcohol would therefore be in walking distance from these locations which may not be ideal given
       the demographic.
   • As mentioned in the Community Impact Statement there is in existence a number of takeaway
       liquor stores – Lismore Square, Dan Murphys and IGA in Goonellabah in reasonable proximity.
   • The Community Impact Statement also cites the BOSCAR rate of alcohol related crime in
       Lismore Heights high in 2020 and 2021 either above or close to state average.
   • I would be inclined to recommend trading hours for liquor be reduced by 1 hour per day.

Based on the above recommendation that trading hours for liquor be reduced by 1 hour per day, the
hours that alcohol can be sold has been conditioned as follows:
               10am to 10pm Monday to Saturday
               10am to 9pm Sundays.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                   41
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                   Report
External Referrals
Set out below is a summary of the external referrals. A full copy of each response from the external
referral bodies are included in Attachment 4 – External Referral Responses.

Transport for NSW (TfNSW)
A referral was sent to Transport for NSW (TfNSW) dated 23 March 2021 seeking comment in relation to
the subject DA. The following comments were provided:
    • TfNSW notes that vehicular access is limited to left-in and left-out movements by an existing
        central median and separate entry and exit driveways. A pedestrian footpath extends from the
        Eastern boundary of the site to existing pedestrian underpass and public bus stop facilities. The
        site is located within an existing residential catchment and is likely to attract patronage from the
        surrounding area.
    • The site access driveways, internal manoeuvring, parking and servicing areas need to be
        designed and constructed in accordance with the relevant parts of AS2890 and Council’s
        Development Control Plan. The internal layout should seek to minimise any potential for vehicles
        to queue from the site onto the classified road.
    • Drawing no. TP02-244-20 dated 22 Feb 2021 proposes on-street parking restrictions within the
        verge of Ballina Road. The Local Traffic Committee should be consulted regarding the regulatory
        signage required to support the proposed arrangement. The Consent Authority should be
        satisfied that sufficient on-site parking is provided to meet demand generated by the proposed
        use.
    • The design of the access driveways should incorporate a public footpath along the site frontage
        and reflect priority for pedestrian and cyclists travelling along Ballina Road. Additionally, the
        proposed landscaping along the site frontage should be designed and maintained to achieve
        clear sightlines between pedestrians, cyclists and vehicles. Where possible patrons should be
        informed and encouraged to use the existing underpass facility to cross Ballina Road.
    • TfNSW understands that business and/or building identification signs will be consistent with the
        State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008. All
        signage should generally be consistent with the road safety criteria in the Transport Corridor
        Outdoor Advertising and Signage Guidelines.

The above matters have been considered by both Council’s Development Engineers and TAC, with
appropriate conditions applied accordingly. The final design plans for the works to be undertaken in the
roadway are to be finalised in an application pursuant to Section 138 of the Roads Act 1993 (S138)
which will be determined in detail by Council’s Development Assessment Engineers in collaboration with
the TAC and TfNSW.

TfNSW has not objected or raised concerns in relation to the safety, efficiency and ongoing operation of
Ballina Road, however as noted, the consent authority (LLC) is to have consideration of these aspects
which has been undertaken and expanded on under the Traffic and Access section of this report.

NSW Police
The application has been reviewed and comments provided by this department, with no objections
raised. Recommendations provided by NSW Police have been included as Advisory Note in the consent.

NSW Environment Protection Authority (EPA)
A referral was sent to NSW Environment Protection Authority (EPA) dated 19 April 2021 seeking theirs
comments. The EPA recommended that Council consider the following:

   •   The processes outlined in State Environmental Planning Policy 55 - Remediation of Land
       (SEPP55) must be followed in order to assess the suitability of the land and any remediation
       required in relation to the proposed use.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                       42
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                       Report
   •   The Applicant must ensure the proposed development does not result in a change of risk in
       relation to any pre-existing contamination on the site so as to result in significant contamination
       [note that this would render the Applicant the ‘person responsible’ for the contamination under
       section 6(2) of CLM Act].

The appropriate assessment and conditions of consent have been included in relation to the EPA’s
recommendations requiring the applicant to submit a validation report prepared by a suitably qualified
consultant and a ‘Section A1 Site Audit Statement’ certifying that the subject land is suitable for the
proposed use.


Consideration
The relevant matters for consideration under Section 4.15 of the Environmental Planning and
Assessment Act 1979, are assessed under the following headings:

State Environmental planning policy No. 55 – Remediation of Land
The subject site was declared significantly contaminated under the Contaminated Land Management Act
1997 by the NSW Environment Protection Authority (EPA) in June 2016.

Under clause 7 of SEPP 55 A consent authority must not consent to the carrying out of any development
on land unless—

(a) it has considered whether the land is contaminated, and
(b) if the land is contaminated, it is satisfied that the land is suitable in its contaminated state (or will be
    suitable, after remediation) for the purpose for which the development is proposed to be carried out,
    and
(c) if the land requires remediation to be made suitable for the purpose for which the development is
    proposed to be carried out, it is satisfied that the land will be remediated before the land is used for
    that purpose.
(2) Before determining an application for consent to carry out development that would involve a change
    of use on any of the land specified in subclause (4), the consent authority must consider a report
    specifying the findings of a preliminary investigation of the land concerned carried out in accordance
    with the contaminated land planning guidelines.
(3) The applicant for development consent must carry out the investigation required by subclause (2)
    and must provide a report on it to the consent authority. The consent authority may require the
    applicant to carry out, and provide a report on, a detailed investigation (as referred to in the
    contaminated land planning guidelines) if it considers that the findings of the preliminary
    investigation warrant such an investigation.

The subject development application is supported by the technical report ‘Underground Petroleum
Storage System Removal and Validation Former Coles Express Lismore Heights 426 Ballina Road
Lismore Heights NSW’ prepared by Cavvanba Consulting Ref:19078 R02 V3 dated December 2020.

The technical report identifies that the proprietors of the property have entered into a Voluntary
Management Proposal (VMP) with the NSW EPA. As a part of the VMP, a Remediation Action Plan
(RAP) is in place which involves removal of fuel infrastructure and contaminated soils and groundwater
in addition to having to undertake two years of groundwater monitoring. These works have largely been
completed except for the two years of groundwater monitoring.

The report concludes that the site is suitable for the continuing commercial/industrial land use with the
following considerations:

 • the site buildings remain in the current configuration.
 • monitoring in accordance with the VMP continues; and

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                         43
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                Report
 • the risk to subsurface maintenance workers is managed, i.e., with an environmental management
   plan (EMP)

Conditions of consent have been included in the proposed conditions requiring the submission a
validation report prepared by a suitably qualified land contamination consultant and a ‘Section A1 Site
Audit Statement’ certifying that the subject land is suitable for the proposed use.

The reporting provided, coupled with the conditions relating to a Site Audit Statement certifying the
subject land is suitable for the proposed use, satisfies the requirements as specified under clause 7 of
the SEPP.

State Environmental Planning Policy (Vegetation in Non-Rural Areas) 2017
No clearing of existing vegetation is proposed, the development complies with the aims and objectives
and relevant provisions of this plan.

State Environmental Planning Policy No. 64 – Advertisement and Signage
Approval for signage has not been sought. A development application is required for any future business
identification or advertising signs unless they are deemed exempt under the State Environmental
Planning Policy No 64 - Advertising and Signage or State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and
Complying Development Codes) 2008 or other relevant legislation at the time. A condition has been
applied to this end.

State Environmental Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007
The application has been assessed against the requirements of clause 101 Development with frontage
to classified road and the proposal is considered consistent with the objectives and provisions of this
clause.

Clause 45 of the SEPP requires the consent authority to notify the electricity supply authority inviting
comments under certain circumstances as listed in the clause, one of which being any development
within 5m of an exposed overhead electricity power line. There is an exposed electricity power line along
the boundary of 426 Ballina Road however this powerline exceeds 5m from the proposed works.

A Traffic Impact Assessment has been prepared which demonstrates the design of the vehicular access
to the neighbourhood shop is adequate. The application has been referred to TfNSW, the TAC and
assessed by Council’s Development Engineer all of whom have not raised any objections to the
proposed development and supported the notion that the nature, volume or frequency of vehicles using
the classified road to gain access to the site is satisfactory. Further comment can be found under the
heading of Traffic and Access contained in this report.

State Environmental Planning Policy (koala habitat protection) 2019
The site is partly identified as an area for a site investigation area for Koala Plans of Management. No
clearing of existing vegetation is proposed as part of this development.

Lismore LEP 2012
Zone, Definition and Permissibility
The proposed development is defined as a neighbourhood shop which means:

A premise used for the purposes of selling general merchandise such as foodstuffs, personal care
products, newspapers and the like to provide for the day-to-day needs of people who live or work in the
local area and may include ancillary services such as a post office, bank or dry cleaning, but does not
include neighbourhood supermarkets or restricted premises.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                   44
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                               Report
Neighbourhood shops are a type of shop —

Shop means premises that sell merchandise such as groceries, personal care products, clothing, music,
homewares, stationery, electrical goods or the like or that hire any such merchandise, and includes a
neighbourhood shop and neighbourhood supermarket, but does not include food and drink premises or
restricted premises.

Neighbourhood shops are permissible with development consent in the R1 General Residential Zone. It
is noted however that commercial uses other than those expressly listed as permitted with consent are
prohibited. The only other commercial uses permissible in the R1 General Residential Zone are Kiosks,
Restaurants and Cafes, ‘Shops’ (other than neighbourhood shops) are prohibited.

Considering the neighbourhood shop definition, and to be consistent with this definition, a variety of
general merchandise should be provided for the day-to-day needs of people who live or work in the local
area. This is to differentiate the Neighbourhood shop land use from a ‘Shop’ that may focus on a single
product, such as a bottle shop, which is prohibited in the zone. It has therefore been conditioned that
should the application be approved, the premises shall not dedicate more than the proposed 32m² or
28% of the total floor area for the sale of alcohol products.

Zone objectives and Zoning Control Tables
Having regard to the provisions of LLEP, it is considered that:
(a) The proposed development is in accordance with clause 2.3 and promotes the specific aims of this
     plan, the objectives of the zone and the objectives of the controls, and
(b) The proposal is consistent with the objectives of the zone particularly by providing land uses that
     provide facilities or services to meet the day to day needs of residents.

As such, consent to the development may be granted.

Part 4 – Principal Development Standards
1.    Demolition Requires Development Consent (cl 2.7)
Consent is sought for the demolition of an awning at the western side of the building and the removal of
the eastern roller door and internal walls.

Height of buildings (cl 4.3)
The prescribed building height for the subject site is 8.5m. The proposed development complies with this
clause as there are no changes to the existing building height of 4.5m.

Part 5 Miscellaneous provisions
Controls relating to miscellaneous permissible uses (cl 5.4)
The development standard 5.4 (7) prescribes that, neighbourhood shops must not have a retail floor
area that exceeds 200 square metres. The total retail floor area (grocery and liquor) is 74m² and
complies with this clause.

Heritage Conservation (cl 5.10)
The subject site is not a known Aboriginal place of heritage significance nor does it contain a heritage
item or is a site in a heritage conservation area.

Part 6 – Additional Local Provisions
Earthworks (cl 6.2)
No earthworks are proposed.

Drinking water catchments (cl 6.4)
It is considered the proposed development does not pose any risk to drinking water storage.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                  45
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                       Report
Essential services (cl 6.9)
Services are available and will be constructed / supplied to a satisfactory level of compliance.

Lismore Development Control Plan

The application has been assessed against the relevant controls in the Lismore DCP as indicated in the
following compliance table.

Development Control Plan Compliance Table


 LISMORE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN

                                        Complies    Relevant Comments
                                        Yes/No
 Chapter 7 Off-street Parking
 Design, Layout and Landscaping         Yes
 Car Parking Spaces Required            Yes         Schedule 1 of the DCP requires 5 car parking spaces per
                                                    100m² GFA. The proposed development has 116m² GFA
                                                    and therefore is required to provide 6 car parking spaces.

                                                    A total of 13 car parking spaces including 1 accessible car
                                                    parking space are proposed for the development,
                                                    exceeding the requirements of the DCP car parking rate.

                                                    The parking spaces (including accessible spaces) and
                                                    access aisles as shown on the plans meet the
                                                    requirements of AS2890.

                                                    The applicant has also demonstrated that a Medium Rigid
                                                    Vehicle (MRV) will be able to enter and leave the site in a
                                                    forward direction.

 Chapter 13 Waste Minimisation
 Relationship with Legislation          Yes
 Handling Waste                         Yes
 Development and Construction         Yes
 Certificate Application
 Chapter 13 Crime Prevention through Environmental Design
 Guidelines for Development             Yes         A crime risk assessment for the proposed development
 Assessment                                         responding to CPTED principles has been provided, which
                                                    generally meet the guidelines.
 Chapter 22 Water Sensitive Design
 Development Controls                   Yes         The proposal will not trigger the requirements of Chapter
                                                    22 – Water Sensitive Design Lismore Development
                                                    Control Plan as no additional imperious area will be
                                                    constructed. This is consistent with the pre-lodgement
                                                    advice.

Section 7.11 Contributions Plan
The Lismore City Section 94 Contributions Plan provides that 7.11 contributions are calculated on GFA.
As there is no proposed increase in commercial GFA the development does not attract additional
developer contributions.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                         46
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                            Report
Section 64 Levies
The proposed use as a retail outlet based on GFA is a lesser demand on water & sewerage services
than that established by the previous use as a service station. No additional demands are generated by
this development proposal over and above the previous approved use of the site. Section 64 levies do
not apply to this development

Applicable Regulations
The EPA Regulation 2000 requires that Council take into consideration AS 2601-1991: the demolition of
structures, as in force at 1 July 1993. An appropriate condition has been applied.

Relevant Council Policies
These have generally been satisfactory considered as part of the development.

Public consultation
Notification/ Submissions
The application was notified to adjoining and surrounding property owners in accordance with the
provisions of Community Consultation Plan – Appendix 1 (Council’s Community Engagement Strategy
and Community Participation Plan) for the Notification and Advertising of Development Applications.
As a result of the notification, 4 submissions were received, all of which objected to the proposed
development. See a summary of the submissions below.


Name of submitter                    Issues raised                          Assessment staff comments
Robert Garbutt       •   Sale of alcohol (another bottle shop is   •   See section following for discussion on the
                         not something our neighbourhood               sale of liquor
                         needs)                                    •   The store will carry items a neighbourhood
                     •   The store should carry items a                shop generally carries and not just
                         neighbourhood shop generally carries,         alcoholic beverages
                         not just alcoholic beverages              •   A condition has been applied that restricts
                     •   Licensing (you must sell alcohol in a         the retail area for the sale of liquor to 32m²
                         separate area)                                or 28%. The submitted plan has been
                     •   The plans do not clearly indicate the         amended to show a separate area for the
                         areas for general retail and for the          sale of alcohol
                         sale of alcohol.                          •   A community Impact Statement has been
                     •   no assessment of harms related to the         provided, a liquor license will be required
                         sale of alcohol in the Crime Prevention       to be approved by the Liquor
                         Report                                        Administration Board, prior to the sale of
                     •   Issues relating to the obtaining of a         Liquor
                         liquor license                            •   Hours of operation are considerably less
                     •   Hours of operation                            than that are permissible under the Liquor
                                                                       Act and have been further reduced by one
                                                                       hour in the proposed conditions of consent
Dan Rose             • Land contamination / remediation            •   For discussion on land contamination see
                     • The site is zoned residential                   the EPA section and State Environmental
                     • The last use of this site was in 2017.          planning policy No. 55 – Remediation of
                       The site is zoned residential. Existing         Land section of this report.
                       use rights have expired.                    •   The site is in a residential zone that
                     • Financial viability                             permits neighbourhood shops.
                     • Sale of Alcohol                             •   The application does not rely on existing
                                                                       use rights for the change of use, the use is
                                                                       permissible
                                                                   •   Financial viability is not an EP&A
                                                                       assessment consideration, that is for the
                                                                       proponent to consider.
                                                                   •   See discussion below regarding sale of
                                                                       liquor
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                              47
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                       Report
Name of submitter                   Issues raised                          Assessment staff comments
Maree Santarossa      • Site contamination                         • For discussion on land contamination see
                      • Sale of alcohol (already enough bottle       the EPA section and State Environmental
                        shops & it promotes drinking alcohol         planning policy No. 55 – Remediation of
                        availability and violence) Intoxicated       Land section of this report.
                        people will be in the immediate vicinity   • Antisocial behaviour will be managed
                        causing problems                             through security measures including CCTV
                      • Access dangerous                             cameras and external lighting.
                      • No consultation                            • See section following for discussion on the
                                                                     sale of liquor
                                                                   • See section following for discussion on
                                                                     Access
                                                                   • The DA was notified in accordance with
                                                                     Council policy and a Notice of Intention
                                                                     was served on the occupiers of all
                                                                     buildings on land
                                                                     within 100 metres together with other
                                                                     stakeholders (see further comment bellow)
Paul Moretti          • Concerns that the site will be turned in   • See section following for discussion on the
                        to a bottle/liquor outlet and this will      sale of liquor
                        have a negative impact on residential      • See section following for discussion on
                        amenity                                      Access
                      • Entry and exit of the property is          • It is not anticipated that the shop will
                        dangerous – traffic/pedestrian safety        generate an unacceptable level of noise.
                      • Noise that may occur after 10pm,           • Council’s development Engineer provides
                        shop hours 10am-11pm                         that ‘There will be no change to the
                      • No drainage works to be undertaken.          hardstand area on the site as a result of
                      • Remediation of site not complete or up       this development and therefore the existing
                        to EPA standards.                            stormwater arrangements will continue to
                      • Lack of consultation with other              be satisfactory’.
                        property owners in close proximity.        • For discussion on land contamination see
                                                                     the EPA section and State Environmental
                                                                     planning policy No. 55 – Remediation of
                                                                     Land section of this report.
                                                                   • The DA was notified in accordance with
                                                                     Council policy and a Notice of Intention
                                                                     was served on the occupiers of all
                                                                     buildings on land within 100 metres
                                                                     together with other stakeholders (see
                                                                     further comment bellow)


Comments
Sale of liquor
As demonstrated in the 4 submissions above the sale of alcoholic beverages and the anticipated social
harms as a result has been a contention regarding the development. For further assessment and to
investigate potential social impact Council requested a Community Impact Statement be submitted. A
Community Impact Statement undertaken by Hatzis Cusack Lawyers was submitted with noteworthy
findings as follows.

The submitted Community Impact Statement recommended that on balance, Council can be satisfied
that the overall social impact in granting the application will not be detrimental to the wellbeing of the
local community and broader community and that the proposal meets all of the other requirements of the
Liquor Act, in support of the same, the following is noted:

    i.   The proposal is to establish a small liquor department wholly within a proposed neighbourhood
         shop.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                         48
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                   Report
   ii. The liquor department will also allow customers of the neighbourhood shop to purchase a range
         of liquor when purchasing grocery and other items from the shop.
   iii. There is not a supermarket or neighbourhood shop selling the range of grocery or other items
         proposed, presently operating in the suburb of Lismore Heights.
   iv. Further, there is not an operating bricks and mortar liquor store in Lismore Heights, with the
         nearest liquor stores being located a considerable distance from the proposed neighbourhood
         shop in adjoining suburbs.
   v. Various responsible service of alcohol practices will be implemented to ensure that liquor is sold
         and supplied responsibly. Practices will also be in place to ensure that minors do not gain access
         to liquor. This will include security measures such as CCTV surveillance, a Plan of Management,
         and a House Policy, which accompany the application.
   vi. The granting of a packaged liquor licence for a facility such as that proposed (i.e., wholly within
         and comprising a defined section of a neighbourhood shop), is less likely to result in any negative
         impacts.
   vii. Studies reveal that assaults on licensed premises principally occur at hotels and nightclubs and
         outside of the hours that the proposed packaged liquor licence will trade.
   viii. No neighbouring occupier, or other stakeholders or special interest groups provided with the
         Notice of Intention raised any concern in relation to the proposal.
   ix. BOCSAR statistics reveal that the rate of liquor-related crime in Lismore Heights has mostly been
         below the State average across all categories for the past 5 years.
   x. The granting of the application will provide substantial public interest positive benefits which
         include:

           • Convenience/One-Stop Shop.
           • Choice and introduction of new product lines.
           • Avoidance of special trips.
           • Reduce escape expenditure and strengthen viability of the business.

   xi. Public demands and expectations to purchase liquor in conjunction with other supermarket
       shopping are entitled to be accorded significant weight in the Authority’s decision making and are
       made expressly relevant by s3(1)(a) of the Liquor Act 2007 Act.

As mentioned above, the nearest existing operating liquor stores are a considerable distance away
comprising a BWS and a Liquorland Store situated within the Lismore Shopping Square, Brewster and
Uralba Streets, Lismore, and the IGA Express Plus Liquor associated with the IGA Supermarket at
Goonellabah.

At present there are no operating liquor stores in Lismore Heights. The sole licensed premises in the
suburb is the Lismore Heights Sports Recreation and Community Club Limited situated at 181A High
Street, Lismore Heights. The Club is located more than 750 metres from the neighbourhood shop. That
premises is the subject of a club licence and only open to members of the club and their guests. The
Club does not provide a dedicated liquor store.

The statement contended that a number of studies demonstrate, the most problematic licensed venues
account for a grossly disproportionate share of assaults and alcohol-related harms. Such venues are
typically hotels and nightclubs concentrated in late-night entertainment districts and not neighbourhood
shops with ancillary alcohol sales.

As has been argued in respect of numerous other applications for packaged liquor licences granted
since the new Liquor Act commenced, a well-managed liquor store forming part of a neighbourhood
shop where robust responsible service of alcohol procedures and practices will be in place, is less likely
to result in any adverse/negative social impacts. Such premises are not the types of venues where
incidents of violence or assault are likely to occur.



Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                     49
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                   Report
The sale of liquor is regulated in NSW by the Liquor Act and associated regulation(s). The damage
inflicted by alcohol abuse is a larger social problem that is best rectified by education and community
health support.

Conditions have been applied to restrict the hours that alcohol can be purchased and is still subject to
the granting of a liquor license being issued by Liquor and Gaming NSW. Those hours are less than the
general standard hours permitted by the Liquor Act in relation to a packaged liquor licence. These are
presently until midnight Mondays to Saturdays, and 10.00 pm Sundays.

Based on the recommendations of Council’s Community Services, the hours alcohol may be sold has
been further reduced by 1 hour and conditioned accordingly as follows:

               10am to 10pm Monday to Saturday
               10am to 9pm Sundays.

Consultation (Notice of Intention)
The required Notice of Intention was served upon the occupiers of all buildings on land within 100 metres
of the proposed licensed premises together with various other stakeholders and special interest groups
as listed on the document accompanying the Community Impact Statement.

 In addition, the relevant Notice of Intention was displayed at the front of the property for a period of 30
days. The Notice invited anyone who had any concerns in relation to the proposal to provide written
responses to the contact details as set out in the Notice. It is noted that no stakeholder or other person
raised any concerns following the said service and or display of the Notice of Intention.

Traffic and Access
Another pertinent issue in the assessment of the subject DA is traffic generation and access onto Ballina
Road. Ballina road forms part of the Bruxner Highway (HW 16) which is a classified (State) road under
the Roads Act 1993.

It was recommended by Council, in the pre lodgement meeting, that the proponent contact Transport for
NSW (TfNSW) prior to lodgement and seek comment in relation to the proposal. The proponent
reportedly contacted TfNSW Land Use Planning Section (Grafton), and the proposed development was
discussed. The TfNSW officer advised that the application was not considered a major traffic generating
development & there was no need for pre-DA consultation. TfNSW would consider the application upon
referral from Lismore City Council once the DA has been lodged.

The application was referred to TfNSW with the response provided in Attachment 4 – External Referral
Responses and the commentary found in this report above. TfNSW has not objected or raised concerns
in relation to the safety, efficiency and ongoing operation of Ballina Road, however as noted, the consent
authority (LLC) is to have consideration of these aspects.

A Traffic and Parking assessment (TIA) undertaken by Intersect Traffic, dated February 2021, was
submitted with the application and is available for public viewing on Councils Website in DA Tracker. The
main traffic issues assessed in the report was the availability of car parking to meet the peak parking
demand generated by the development, plus the suitability of the existing vehicular access of the site to
service the available on-site car parking. The following information was provided in the TIA and was not
rebutted or challenged by TfNSW, the TAC or Council’s Development Engineer.

Due to a raised concrete central median on Ballina Road along the site frontage all access to the new
premises will be left in only and left out only. The site access needs to service a car park with less than
25 car parks fronting an arterial road.

Table 3.1 of Australian Standard AS2890.1-2004 Parking facilities – Part 1 Off-street car parking
identifies that for Class 3 parking for the above conditions that a Category 2 access is required.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                     50
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                 Report
Table 3.2 of Australian Standard AS2890.1-2004 Parking facilities – Part 1 Off-street car parking states a
Category 2 access as being a combined entry / exit driveway 6 to 9 metres wide. The existing accesses
to be used by the development are described as separate entry and exit driveways 9 metres wide
separated by 13 metres and is described as a Category 3 access in accordance with Table 3.2 of
Australian Standard AS2890.1-2004 Parking facilities – Part 1 Off-street car parking.
Therefore, the proposed development access exceeds the requirements of Australian Standards.

Sight distance at the access points needs to be in accordance with Figure 3.2 of Australian Standard
AS2890.1-2004 Parking facilities – Part 1 Off-street car parking.
Within a 60 km/h speed zone, the minimum sight distance requirement is 65 metres or a desirable 83
metres. By onsite observation, the sight distance at the entry and exit accesses exceed 100 metres
(estimated to be 150 to 160 metres).

The visibility will be further enhanced should Council endorse the TAC39/21 4.3 Request for No
Stopping Zone - 426 Ballina Road, Lismore Heights minutes recommending the installation of the no-
stopping zone. Council resolved previously to consider this as part of the Development Application
Determination.

The car parking proposed to be provided is more than what is required under Council’s DCP.
Schedule 1 of the DCP requires 5 car parking spaces per 100m² GFA. The proposed development has
116m² GFA and therefore is required to provide 6 car parking spaces. A total of 13 car parking spaces
including 1 accessible car parking space are proposed for the development, exceeding the requirements
of the DCP car parking rate.

The parking spaces (including accessible spaces) and access aisles as shown on the plans meet the
requirements of AS2890. The applicant has demonstrated that a Medium Rigid Vehicle (MRV) will be
able to enter and leave the site in a forward direction.

It is therefore considered that the proposed development has demonstrated access and car parking
requirements that comply and exceed the Australian Standards and Councils Carparking DCP controls

Councils TAC found that only one accident has been recorded Infront of what was the service station.
They have provided comment that there is no objection to the development and agreed to impose a no
standing zone in front of the development should the development be approved to further improve
visibility entering and leaving the site.

Councils Development Engineer has assessed the application and also supports the application stating
the existing accesses width will allow all proposed vehicles to safely enter and exit the site. No changes
to the accesses are required, however they are in rather poor condition and require a new surface. In
relation to traffic impact, the proposed neighbourhood shop can be considered as a similar use to what
was previously on the site (service station and shop), consequently there will be minimal change to the
traffic numbers with no adverse impacts being generated on the surrounding road network because of
this development.

Roads Act Approvals
The final design plans for the works to be undertaken in the roadway are to be finalised in a more
detailed on-ground construction application pursuant to Section 138 of the Roads Act 1993 (S138),
which will be determined by Council’s Development Assessment Engineers, in collaboration with the
Traffic Advisory Committee.

As the premise has frontage to Ballina Road / Bruxner Highway, a State listed classified road (State 16),
concurrence from TfNSW will form part of the assessment process, ensuring a robust review.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                   51
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                  Report
Local Government Act Approvals
The proposal requires approvals under Section 68 of the Local Government Act 1993 for stormwater
works, and sewer and water connection. These requirements have been included within the draft
conditions.

Road upgrades
The site has a 40m frontage onto Ballina Road, existing accesses to be upgrade by the development are
separate entry and exit driveways 9 metres wide separated by 13 metres. The Ballina Road / Bruxner
Highway frontage is in poor condition and will need to be rectified. This pertains to redundant lay-backs
and vehicular crossings that shall be reinstated to conventional kerb and gutter, foot-paving or grassed
verge as appropriate.

Servicing
The site will be serviced by mainly medium rigid vehicles (MRV’s) with a frequency of approximately 3
deliveries per day with the major deliveries occurring early in the AM outside peak traffic and peak
operating periods for the development. The delivery vehicle will enter in a forward direction and park
under the canopy before unloading to the store through the existing roller door and will not impede any of
the on-site car parks. On completion of unloading the delivery vehicle can exit the site through the exit
driveway in a forward direction. Overall, it is concluded that the servicing arrangements for the proposed
development are satisfactory and suitable for the development.

Pedestrian safety
As all vehicles will be entering and exiting the development in a forward direction, pedestrian safety will
not be unfavourably affected.

Finance
Comments were not required with this development type.

All Likely Impacts of the Development
All likely impacts of the proposed development have been considered within the context of this report.

ENVIRONMENTAL APPRAISAL                                                      CONSIDERED

1.    Statutory Controls                                                           Yes
2.    Policy Controls                                                              Yes
3.    Design in relation to existing building and natural environment              Yes
4.    Landscaping/Open Space Provision                                             Yes
5.    Traffic generation and Carparking provision                                  Yes
6.    Loading and Servicing facilities                                             Yes
7.    Physical relationship to and impact upon adjoining                           Yes
      development (Views, privacy, overshadowing, etc.)
8.    Site Management Issues                                                       Yes
9.    ESD Principles and Climate Change                                            Yes
10.   All relevant S4.55 considerations of                                         Yes
      Environmental Planning and Assessment (Amendment) Act 1979




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                    52
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                   Report
Public interest
The proposed permissible redevelopment of the site is considered to provide public benefits to the
locality by making convenience items available to meet the day to day needs of residents.

The proposed development would generate economic benefits via construction works and the
employment of staff required to manage the stores activities. The proposed development would
rejuvenate and or re-purpose an existing unsightly disused building & surrounds, with new footpaths,
landscaping, and reinstated road reserve verges.

The proposed development is in the public interest.


Conclusion
When assessing a development application consideration must be provided holistically, weighing up the
merits against concerns. The application has merits, it meets the criteria of the zone objectives by
providing goods to meet the day to day needs of residents. The proposal is compatible with the character
of the locality and anticipated to have an acceptable impact on the amenity of the residential area.

The site is visually prominent being situated on an arterial road at the gateway of the Lismore city limits.
Development of the site would provide a sense of rejuvenation for this strategically important location for
what is presently an unappealing abandoned service station.

As the prior use of the allotment was a service station, it has become contaminated, which has been
remediated to an acceptable level for commercial land use. Due to prior contamination, the land is
limited to commercial use and required to have the existing structures remain in situ.

Commercial uses in the zone are limited. Neighbourhood shops are permissible in the zone. The
proposed Neighbourhood shop is a re-adaptive permissible land use of the premises that otherwise has
a limited potential for future use.

The matters raised in the 4 submissions have been addressed and consideration been given to matters
of concern, all of which as has been extensively discussed within the report.

Concerns have been raised in relation to the safety of the vehicular access for motorists and
pedestrians. These concerns have been investigated by qualified professionals from both Council staff
and TfNSW, together with the qualified professionals engaged by the applicant. These experts have
supported the proposed development and assert that traffic safety under the existing and proposed
circumstance shall exceed the requirements of applicable Australian Standards.

Concerns have been raised regarding the sale of alcohol and the negative health and social implications.
The Community Impact Statement contends that a well-managed liquor store forming part of a
neighbourhood shop where robust responsible service of alcohol procedures and practices are in place,
is unlikely to result in any adverse/negative social impacts.

The DA if successful will still be required to obtain a liquor licence and trade in accordance with
applicable standards. The sale of liquor is regulated in NSW by the Liquor Act and associated
regulation(s) and reviewed by the Licensing police on a regular basis.

The proposed hours liquor can be available for sale will be less than the standard hours permitted by the
Liquor Act. The hours that alcohol can be sold has been further reduced by 1 hour and restrictions have
been imposed on the floor area that liquor products may occupy.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                     53
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                 Report
The application for infill development of a brownfield site for the purposes of a Neighbourhood Shop has
been assessed under the heads of consideration provided by the Environmental Planning and
Assessment Act 1979. The proposed development has and been determined as generally conforming
with such matters, together with meeting the intent, objectives, and performance criteria of the local
planning statutes and is therefore recommended to be approved.


Attachment/s
1.⇨    Attachment 1 - Proposed Conditions of Consent                            (Over 7 pages)
2.⇨    Attachment 2 - DA Plans - 426 Ballina Road LISMORE HEIGHTS 2480          (Over 7 pages)
3.⇨    Attachment 3 - Council Referral Officers Reports                         (Over 7 pages)
4.⇨    Attachment 4 – External Referral Responses                               (Over 7 pages)




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - DA21/132 - To undertake a change of use from a
service station to a neighbourhood shop comprising internal fitout, car parking,
                                                                                                  54
landscaping, and associated works.
                                                                                                 Report
Report
Subject                 Imagine Lismore End of Term Report 2017-2021
TRIM Record No          BP21/570:EF19/805

Prepared by             Corporate Planning & Engagement Coordinator

Reason                  Requirement of the Integrated Planning and Reporting framework

Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                  Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary

The Local Government Act requires that the outgoing elected body of Council must prepare a final end
of term report detailing achievements in implementing the strategic direction of the Community Strategic
Plan over the term of the Council.

This report is to be prepared and presented to the community in the same year as local government
elections in accordance with section 428(2) of the Local Government Act 1993 (NSW).

The End of Term Report is therefore presented at this Council meeting consistent with the timing of the
Local Government Election that is scheduled to occur on 4 December 2021.

Preparation of an End of Term report is a legislated requirement and part of the Integrated Planning and
Reporting framework.


Recommendation
That:
   1. The Imagine Lismore Community Strategic Plan End of Term report be received and noted.

   2. End of Term report be incorporated into the Annual Report for 2020-2021.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Imagine Lismore End of Term Report 2017-
2021
                                                                                                   55
                                                                                                   Report
Background
The Imagine Lismore Community Strategic Plan 2017-2027 has provided the direction for the delivery of
Council activities and projects over the last five years. Council has reported on its progress in meeting
the community strategic direction through quarterly and half yearly reports during this period. In addition
to the regular progress reporting outlined in the Local Government Act (NSW), there is a requirement
that the outgoing elected body must prepare a final end of term report detailing achievements in
implementing the strategic direction of the Community Strategic Plan, over the term of the Council. This
report is to be prepared and presented to the community in the year in which an ordinary local
government election is to be held in accordance with section 428(2) of the Local Government Act 1993.

Given the postponement of the scheduled local government election in September 2020, the Imagine
Lismore End of Term report highlights progress, and achievements over a five year rather than a four-
year period.

With the Local Government Election to occur on 4 December 2021, the outgoing Council is now required
to prepare and table this report. Following the election of the Council in December 2021, the Integrated
Planning and Reporting cycle recommences starting with a review of the Community Strategic Plan. The
End of Term report will inform the new Council on the progress to date and achievements against the
Community Strategic Plan.

The End of Term Report 2017-2021 is an account of the achievements in implementing the strategic
direction of the Community Strategic Plan over the term of the Council, and aims at answering the
following these questions:

•   Did Council do what it said it would do towards achieving the objectives of the plan?
•   Did other partners in the process do what they said they would do towards achieving the objectives
    of the plan?
•   Were these actions effective? Did anything change or start to improve?

Note, this report has not been formatted for publication to Council’s corporate standard. Desktop
publishing will occur as part of the final preparation of the Lismore City Council Annual Report 2020-
2021. As such, citation of sources, footnotes and formatting may change (e.g. data that has been
included in this report may be presented graphically in the annual report).

Comments
Finance
Not applicable.

Other staff comments
This is in accordance with Section 428(2) of the Local Government Act 1993 (NSW) and the existing
Integrated Planning Framework suite of plans.

Public consultation
The Imagine Lismore End of Term Report will be an addendum to the 2020-2021 Annual Report and will
be publicised on the Lismore City Council website by 30 November 2021

Conclusion
This report has not been formatted for publication to Council’s corporate standard. Desktop publishing
will occur as part of the final preparation of the Annual Report 2020-2021. As such, citation of sources,
footnotes and formatting may change (e.g. data that has been included in this report may be presented
graphically in the annual report).

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Imagine Lismore End of Term Report 2017-
2021
                                                                                                     56
                                                                          Report
Attachment/s
1.⇨    Draft Community Report - EOTR 2017-2021 (Over 7 pages)




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Imagine Lismore End of Term Report 2017-
2021
                                                                           57
                                                                                                   Report
Report
Subject                 Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
                        reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin
                        Neighbourhood & Information Centre.
TRIM Record No          BP21/779:EF21/201

Prepared by             Strategic Planning Project Officer

Reason                  To obtain a Council resolution to progress the proposal.

Strategic Theme         A prosperous and vibrant city

Strategy                Our city, villages and riverbank precincts are vibrant and provide diverse activity
                        that strengthens our social connections.
Action                  Provide socially inclusive, vital and welcoming services that support the
                        education, social and recreational needs of the community.


Executive Summary
Council has received a request from the Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information Centre (NNIC) that part
of the land at 9 Sibley Street, Nimbin (Peace Park) be transferred to them through a boundary
adjustment with the adjoining property at 7 Sibley Street to facilitate the Sustainable Living Hub project.
Lismore City Council was involved in the development of a Master Plan for the site and advised NNIC
that to address access and parking requirements, the Master Plan should include the adjoining land at
Peace Park.

NNIC have requested that Council gift the land to them because of the community’s involvement in the
initial acquisition of Peace Park. NNIC has also been maintaining part of the land ‘replacing weed-
infested piles of rubbles and rubbish with gardens and caring for those areas’ and would retain the
existing basketball court for community.

Transferring the land for anything less than market value would likely trigger section 356 of the Local
Government Act 1993 which states a Council can contribute money or otherwise grant financial
assistance to third parties in accordance with a resolution, subject to public notification requirements.

This report recommends that Council support NNIC’s proposal to gift them part of 9 Sibley Street
through a boundary adjustment. If Council does support the disposal of public land, the land must first
be reclassified from community to operational land through an amendment to the Local Environmental
Plan 2012. A report would also need to come back to Council to formally endorse the sale or gifting of
the land if/when the reclassification is gazetted.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                                                     58
Information Centre.
                                                                                                   Report
Recommendation
That:
  1. Council supports in principle the ongoing development of the Sustainable Living Hub at 7 Sibley
     Street, Nimbin by the Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information Centre (NNIC) over part of 9 Sibley
     Street, Nimbin (Peace Park).
  2. A Planning Proposal to amend the Lismore Local Environmental Plan 2012 to reclassify part of 9
     Sibley Street, Nimbin from Community to Operational is brought back to Council.
  3. Upon reclassification of that part of 9 Sibley Street, Nimbin, a report be brought back to Council.
  4. Council provides in principle support to:-
        a. The Transfer of that part of 9 Sibley Street, Nimbin (Peace Park), (Lot1 DP 305607) to NNIC.
        b. The land being gifted to NNIC subject to the requirements of the Local Government Act 1993 in
           relation to financial assistance.
  5. All costs associated with the transfer of the land be paid by NNIC including Council’s legal costs (if
     any).


Background
Council has received a request from the Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information Centre (NNIC) that part of
the land at 9 Sibley Street, Nimbin (Peace Park) be transferred to them through a boundary adjustment
with the adjoining property at 7 Sibley Street. The request is included as Attachment 1.

The site and the area proposed to be reclassified from Community to Operational and transferred are
shown in Plates 1 and 2. Plate 3 provides an aerial view of the land. NNIC has requested that Council
gift the land to them due to the community’s involvement in the initial acquisition of Peace Park, which is
outlined below.

History of the Site
A summary of the key points regarding the ownership and classification of 9 Sibley Street from Council’s
records is provided below.
   • Peace Park and the land on the other side of Sibley Street that is now the Nimbin Community
       Centre (81 Cullen Street) were sold by the Department of Education in 1998 after the completion
       of the Nimbin Central School. (Folios 1/305607 & 1/930808).
   • Lismore City Council purchased the two sites for $280,000 with Nimbin Community Development
       Association (NCDA) (which has since become NNIC), providing an initial contribution of
       $140,000.
   • A Deed of Agreement dated 31/1/98 provided that subsequent payments by NCDA were to be
       made over a 10-year period to repay the remaining amount of the purchase price.
   • Two lots were subdivided from Lot 1 DP930808 to create unique sites for the Nimbin Rural Fire
       Brigade and Council-owned public toilets.
   • NCDA fulfilled its loan obligation to Council in 2004/05.
   • A new Deed of Agreement dated 28/7/2009 outlined the process for the transfer of title for the
       Nimbin Community Centre (Lot 11 DP1013827) and the lease of Peace Park with an option for
       Nimbin Community Centre Inc. to take a transfer of the title for Peace Park within 1 year.
   • In December 2009 Nimbin Community Centre Inc. advised Council that they would not exercise
       their option to become owners of Peace Park because of ongoing public liability costs associated
       with the proposed development of the site as a skate park.
   • It was requested at this time that Council reclassify the land from Operational to Community.
   • In April 2012, Council resolved to reclassify 9 Sibley Street (Peace Park) as Community Land.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                                                     59
Information Centre.
                                                                                       Report




                                     Plate 1: Subject Site Location




             Plate 2: Area of land proposed for Reclassification and Boundary Adjustment
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                                           60
Information Centre.
                                                                                               Report




             Plate 3: Aerial view of part of 7 Sibley and part of 9 Sibley Street, Nimbin

7 Sibley Street Masterplan
In 2012 NNIC and the Nimbin Community Centre Inc (NCCI) formed a partnership and undertook
fundraising activities to purchase the land and the dilapidated house at 7 Sibley Street because of its
strategic location adjacent to the Nimbin skate park. In 2013 a Concept Masterplan process was
undertaken to develop 7 Sibley Street as a Sustainable Living Hub to share skills and promote all
aspects of affordable housing and sustainable living. Extensive community input and consultation was
undertaken through a series of workshops, including with Lismore City Council. Council advised that to
address access and parking requirements, the Master Plan should include the adjoining land at Peace
Park. The Master Plan is shown on Plate 4 below.

The project’s aims and details of Council’s input are included at Attachment 1. The Sustainable Living
Hub is a key strategy in the ‘Sustainable Nimbin Community Plan’ which has involved several community
planning forums that were most recently undertaken in 2015.

Stage 1 of the project, to relocate and renovate the existing house, was undertaken in 2018 and NNIC
has taken full ownership of the site. NNIC is now seeking to take ownership of an area of approximately
1510m2 on the western side of Peace Park that includes a basketball half court and shade structure so
that future stages of the Sustainable Living Hub project can be undertaken.

NNIC has indicated that because of the time since the Masterplan was initially developed, further
community consultation will be undertaken to refine the scale and scope of the project. Any future
development will be subject to development consent from Council.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                                                 61
Information Centre.
                                                                                                 Report




                           Plate 4: Location / Master Plan 7-9 Sibley Street

Options and Considerations for Council
Council is under no obligation to reclassify or dispose of the land and may elect to maintain the status
quo. An alternative resolution (Option B) is provided if Council does not wish to support the request from
NNIC.

Another option is to grant a lease of the land to NNIC through a Plan of Management and an Occupation
Agreement. Council’s Property Manager has provided comments in this report that this option is not
preferable for either Council or a third party where infrastructure investment is proposed on Community
land as it creates uncertainty for both parties and comes with significant State Government oversight,
including a requirement for Ministerial approval for any lease exceeding 21 years. An alternative
resolution for this option has not been included.

Alternatively, Council may be supportive of the proposal to reclassify and dispose of the land but wish to
dispose of it at market value. NNIC is highly unlikely to be in a position to purchase the land at market
value. However, an alternative resolution is provided if Council supports this option (Option A below).

This report supports the request made by the NNIC due to:
• the history of the land, which shows the community’s previous acquisition and ownership of the land;
• the substantial community input into the Sustainable Living Hub Master Plan;
• Council involvement in the preparation of the Master Plan and advice about the need to extend the
    Plan to 9 Sibley Street;
• NNIC’s work in contributing to the maintenance of the land ‘replacing weed-infested piles of rubbles
    and rubbish with gardens and caring for those areas’, and their commitment to retain the existing
    basketball court for community use;
• No current Council plans for the land.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                                                    62
Information Centre.
                                                                                                  Report
Additionally, there will be further community input during the reclassification of land process, which
includes a Public Hearing. This process will allow further discussion about the future use of the land.

If Council supports the recommendation to reclassify the land to operational and gift it to NNIC, there are
requirements under Section 356 of the Local Government Act 1993 relating to the provision of financial
assistance to others. This requires a resolution of Council and 28 days public notice. The
recommendation as written requires a report to come back to Council post reclassification to determine
the terms of disposal of the land.

Comments
Finance
The recommendation as printed is supported.

Property Services Manager
Power to dispose of land
If Council wish to support the disposal of public land, the land must first be reclassified from community
land to operational land as recommended in this report. This is because Council has no power to sell,
exchange or otherwise dispose of community land.

If Council support the proposal to dispose of the land it is recommended Council record that intention in
the resolution. As Council does not have the power to sell community classified land, a report would
need to come back to Council to formally endorse the sale of the land if/when the reclassification is
gazetted.

Direct negotiations
Whilst a contract for the purchase or sale of land by a council is exempt from tendering requirements in
the Local Government Act 1993, Council should consider whether it is appropriate to negotiate directly
with NCCI in the context of its Unsolicited Proposal Policy and ICAC’s 2018 publication Direct
Negotiations: Guidelines for Managing Risks. Council should also consider the strategic value of this
land for broader community needs.

Alternatives to Disposal of the Land
If Council does not support the disposal of public land, there are mechanisms to authorise third party
development/use through the plan of management and an occupation agreement. Third party use of
community land is firmly regulated and comes with significant community and state government
oversight. This creates uncertainty for Council and the third party and can hinder access to funding
opportunities. Reclassifying the land to operational land would be recommended if Council is supportive
of any significant development, change of use or third-party investment in the site.

Land Disposal Costs
The report recommends all costs be borne by NNIC. From a property perspective, the costs involved
with the disposal of land would/could include obtaining development approval for the subdivision, Council
application fees, survey and plan registration fees, valuation and legal fees, stamp duty.

Land Value
Transferring the land for anything less than market value may trigger section 356 of the Local
Government Act 1993. A Council can contribute money or otherwise grant financial assistance to third
parties in accordance with a resolution. Where a proposed recipient acts for private gain Council cannot
grant the assistance until at least 28 days' public notice of the council's proposal to pass the necessary
resolution has been given. Public notice is recommended regardless of the profit status of NNIC.

The decision on whether or not to gift the land to NNIC should be deferred pending the outcome of the
land reclassification process because:-


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                                                    63
Information Centre.
                                                                                                     Report
   a) the quantum of financial assistance should be determined by reference to the market valuation at
      the time the parties enter a Contact for the sale of land; and
   b) there is insufficient time before caretaker provisions come into effect to complete the public notice
      period.

If Council wants to record its intention to gift the land now, the resolution should be subject to the
outcome of the section 356 process.

Manager Assets
The proposal is supported in principle. However at the time of writing this report, an assessment had not
yet been made of the potential impacts on the process of the fact that NNIC had paid Council the full
amount of the purchase price of the land under the previous deeds of agreement.

This is unlikely to change the legislative process that needs to be followed but is certainly a factor to be
considered in Council’s decision.

Public consultation
If Council supports the proposal, an amendment to the Lismore LEP 2012 would be required to reclassify
part of the land from Community to Operational. This would require public exhibition and community
consultation. A public hearing would also be required under Section 29 of the Local Government Act
1993 and Section 57 of the Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979.

Alternative Resolutions
If Council is not supportive of the recommendation as written, alternatives and suggested resolutions are
provided below:

Option A:
If Council support in principle the proposed boundary adjustment but wish to consider seeking market
value for the land; an alternative resolution would be to delete 3(c) of the report’s recommendation that
Council provides in principle support to the land being gifted to NNIC.

Option B:
If Council does not support the request from NNIC and seeks to maintain the status quo, the alternative
resolution is that:

   1. Council advises the Nimbin Neighbourhood and Information Centre that it does not support the
      request to transfer part of 9 Sibley Street, Nimbin to the NNIC through a boundary adjustment
      with the adjoining property at 7 Sibley Street, Nimbin and that the land remain classified as
      ‘Community’.

Conclusion
Council has been approached by NNIC to begin the process of reclassifying part of 9 Sibley Street,
Nimbin in order that a boundary adjustment can be undertaken with the adjoining land at 7 Sibley Street.
The purpose of the boundary adjustment is to facilitate the future development of the Sustainable Living
Hub project. NNIC has requested that Council gift the land to them because of the community’s
involvement in the initial acquisition of Peace Park and past community support for the Sustainable
Living Hub.

This report supports the request by the NNIC. If Council wish to support the disposal of public land, the
land must first be reclassified from operational land to community land.

Two alternative resolutions have been provided for Council’s consideration.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                                                       64
Information Centre.
                                                                              Report
Attachment/s
1.⇩   Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood &
                                                                               65
Information Centre.
Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment                              Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
                                                                                           66
Centre.
Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment                              Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
                                                                                           67
Centre.
Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment                              Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
                                                                                           68
Centre.
Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment                              Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
                                                                                           69
Centre.
Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment                              Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
                                                                                           70
Centre.
Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment                              Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
                                                                                           71
Centre.
Letter to LCC regarding Peace Park Boundary Adjustment                              Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Request for part of Peace Park, Nimbin to be
reclassified as Operational and transferred to Nimbin Neighbourhood & Information
                                                                                           72
Centre.
                                                                                                      Report
Report
Subject                Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 1 - July
                       to September 2021
TRIM Record No         BP21/871:EF18/696

Prepared by            Corporate Planning & Reporting Officer

Reason                 In accordance with the Local Government Act 1993, the General Manager is
                       required to provide Council with a report on Delivery Program implementation at
                       least every six months.
Strategic Theme        Leadership and participation

Strategy               We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                 Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
The attached Progress Report provides a summary of progress against each of the activities in the
Delivery Program 2017 – 2021 and Operational Plan 2021-22 between July and September 2021. It
also explains some changes that have been made to improve how information is presented.


Recommendation
That Council receive and endorse the attached Delivery Program Progress Report for the period July to
September 2021


Background
The Local Government Act 1993 requires the General Manager to provide a report on the progress of
implementing Council’s Delivery Program at least every six months. The attached report covers the
period 1 July – 30 September 2021 and includes a traffic light status update with supporting commentary
for the Revised Delivery Program 2017-21/Operational Plan 2021/22.

Some improvements have been made to the design of this report and the new format is explained
in detail on the first page of the report. In essence, we have developed a new set of status traffic
lights (shown below) as well as measures, targets for each action.

  Status Type and Colour                                   Explanation of Status
           Code
                                No update has been made for this action

                                This action is on track and things are progressing as they should

                                This action is not on track and steps are being taken to address this.
                                Responsible Officers need to articulate in their quarterly update comment what
                                they are doing to address issues, in order to get this action ‘back to green’
                                Responsible Officers select this status if they are ‘putting their hand up’ for
                                assistance. They have done all they can to try and address issues with the
                                action and it has not worked, so they are indicating that they need to escalate
                                the matter

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 1 -
July to September 2021
                                                                                                        73
                                                                                                          Report
                                This action is not due to start until later in the financial year

                                It has been formally agreed that this action will not happen at all or will be
                                deferred to a later time
                                The action has been completed for the year and there will be no further
                                resources needed to deliver it

Please also note that the wording of Action E4.1.18 has been amended from “Identify funding
opportunities to develop a Business Continuity Plan” to “Develop a Business Continuity Plan.”

Comments
Finance
Not required

Other staff comments
Not required

Public consultation
The report will be placed on Council’s website as well as the Your Say Lismore Engagement portal for
community access.


Conclusion
This Progress Report details progress against the operational activities and projects as set out in the
Imagine Lismore Delivery Program 2017-2021/Operational Plan 2021-22 for the period July to
September 2021.

Attachment/s
1.⇨    Progress Report - Quarter 1 - July to September 2021 (Over 7 pages)




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Delivery Program - Progress Report - Quarter 1 -
July to September 2021
                                                                                                             74
                                                                                            Reports
Report
Subject               September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review Statement
TRIM Record No        BP21/899:EF09/580-03

Prepared by           Principal Accountant

Reason                In accordance with Clause 203, Local Government (General) Regulations,
                      Council approval is required to amend the 2020/21 Budget to reflect the actual
                      or anticipated result
Strategic Theme       Leadership and participation

Strategy              We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                75
                                                                                                Reports
Executive Summary
The forecast consolidated financial results and cash position reported in the QBRS are:

    • Net Operating Result for the Year – Surplus                                           $16,092,400
    • Net Operating Result for the Year before Capital Grants & Contributions – Deficit   ($20,138,600)
    • Funding Sources (Consolidated) & Cash Position – Deficit                               ($240,000)

Major Movements on the Operating Result:
Unfunded Adjustments

The main movements are summarised as follows:
                                         Movement                                           Amount
    Additional cemetery income resulting from historical funeral plan policies being
    claimed                                                                                       20,000
    Additional Financial Assistance Grant received                                              117,300
    Airport income                                                                              (52,000)
    General rates & charges received - general fund                                               82,600
    Increase in mayoral and councillor fees - impact on general fund                             (5,800)
    Lower consultant cost less drop in revenue (drill and blast delayed) at quarry                 6,800
    New Revenue from rentals                                                                       8,100
    Total                                                                                      $177,000

•     General Fund - Additional funding received in the form of Financial Assistance Grants $117,300. This
      amount is not tied to specific activities, so it reduces the projected deficit.
•     Lismore Regional Airport - Reduced income ($52,000) from passenger numbers and car-hire kiosk
      due to COVID-19 lockdowns being extended into the 2021/22 year.
•     General Fund - additional rates received above budget $82,600. This is due to a re-calculation in
      properties that occurs each year and can not be quantified at the time of setting the annual budget.
The total unfunded amounts improve the budget deficit from ($417,000) to ($240,000).

Funded Adjustments
The main movements are summarised as follows:

                                 Major Funded Movements                                     Amount
    Flood Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements - Roads & Bridges                           $9,684,700
    Waste minimisation, Wastewater and Stormwater rates                                      ($139,600)
    Airport runup bay project - new funding - 100% external funding (Federal)                  $300,000
    Total major funded movements                                                             $9,845,100

    These transactions are all funded – reserves, reduced expenses, grants unexpended loans
    More detail is included in the September QBRS attachment

New Grant and unbudgeted grant funds receive:
•     Roads & Bridges - Flood disaster recovery additional grants of $9,684,700 expected to be fully
      utilised on road and bridge repairs. This will show as an increase in Employee Benefits costs of
      ($188,700) and Materials & Contracts of ($9,496,000).


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                    76
                                                                                                  Reports
•     Lismore Regional Airport - Federal grant funding $300,000 has been awarded to undertake capital
      project at the Airport.

Major Movements – Capital:
                                  Acquisition of Assets                                       Amount
    Financial Assistance Grant - allocated to capital roads projects                             ($91,400)
    Airport runup bay project - new funding - 100% external funding (Federal)                   ($300,000)
    Major Movements                                                                             ($391,400)

Commentary on all recommended changes is included in the September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement.

Key Performance Indicators (KPI)
Of the seven KPIs included in the September quarterly report, three are unfavourable compared to
benchmarks.

Operating Performance Ratio – The unfavourable variance for the current year is due mainly to the
increase in depreciation expense as a result of the revaluation of roads assets in the 2019/20 financial
year. In addition Council operating result has declined due to the recognition of $801,000 in carried
forward works from 2021.

Unrestricted current ratio- Council has undertaken considerable work during the 2021 Financial reports
to increase its short term liquid assets (internally restricted cash) which will improve this ratio to a more
satisfactory level.

Building & Infrastructure Renewals Ratio – more work is required to address this issue.

Long Term Financial Plan – Remediation
While Council’s financial position as at 30 June 2022 is anticipated to be satisfactory, having regards to
the adopted 2021/22 Operational Plan, however there are indicators that require immediate attention to
ensure long-term financial sustainability.

Movements of categories within the existing budget for improved data analytics and reporting

As part of Council’s ongoing improvement of processes and reporting, certain reporting categories in the
General Ledger have been reviewed. It was determined that some of the categories being utilized were
too broad to provide adequate data for reporting and analytics. Where additional reporting capability was
required the broader categories were broken down into more specific accounts.

This will not have an overall impact on the quarterly or annual reports of Council. It does not represent a
change to budget, strategy or Operational Plan however there will be some movement between
categories as the project is completed.

                              Major Re-categorization                                         Amount
    Employee Benefits & On- Costs                                                                ($44,400)
    Materials & Contracts                                                                          $44,400




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                      77
                                                                                                  Reports
Recommendation
That Council adopt the attached September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review Statement.


Background
The Local Government (General) Regulation 2005 requires the annual budget to be monitored on an
ongoing basis and a quarterly budget review statement prepared and reported to Council. The content is
mandated by the NSW Office of Local Government.

The September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review Statement (QBRS) includes the recommended changes
to the budget for the year-ended 30 June 2022. To meet financial reporting purposes, the QBRS has
been prepared on a consolidated basis with internal transactions eliminated.

Only variations that can be reliably quantified or where there is substantial risk in meeting budget
expectations have been reported.

For clarity, where an amount is ‘favourable’ to Council’s financial result for the year or financial position
as at 30 June, it will be shown as un-bracketed. Where an amount is ‘unfavourable’ to Council’s financial
result for the year or financial position as at 30 June, it will be shown as (bracketed).

September 2021 QBRS – Consolidated Summary
Financial Results
                                                                        Recommended
                                                                          Changes
                                          Adopted
                                                          Approved       September         Revised 2021/22
                Item                      2021/22
                                                        Carry Forward       2021               Budget
                                          Budget
                                                                            QBRS


Net Operating Result for the Year       $16,502,000      ($801,000)          $390,400       $16,092,400


Net Operating Result for the Year
before Capital Grants &                ($19,428,000)     ($801,000)           $90,400      ($20,138,600)
Contributions

Funding Sources (Consolidated) &
Cash Position – Surplus                   ($417,000)               $0        $177,000         ($240,000)


The Net Operating Result for the Year before Capital Grants & Contributions is considered the more
appropriate result as it excludes income received for capital purposes and therefore not matched by a
related expense.

For the above results, a deficit means Council is using more resources (including depreciation) than it is
generating in income, and a surplus means Council is generating more income than resources used. An
ongoing deficit result is not financially sustainable.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                      78
                                                                                                 Reports
Key Performance indicators
Ratio                                             Commentary
1. Operating Performance Ratio                    This ratio measures the achievement of containing
                                                  operating expenses within operating revenue. Net
                                                  operating result from continuing operations
                                                  (excluding capital items) as a percentage of operating
                                                  revenue (excluding capital items).

                                                  Consolidated:
                                                  Benchmark is greater than (0)
                                                  September 2021 – Unfavourable.

                                                  The unfavourable variance for the current year is due
                                                  mainly to the increase in depreciation expense as a
                                                  result of the revaluation of roads assets in the
                                                  2019/20 financial year. In addition, Council operating
                                                  result has declined due to the recognition of
                                                  $801,000 in carried forward works from 2021.

2. Own Source Operating Revenue Ratio             This ratio measures Council's fiscal flexibility by
                                                  reporting Council's reliance on external funding
                                                  sources such as operating grants and contributions.

                                                  Council's financial flexibility improves the higher the
                                                  level of its own source of revenue.

                                                  Consolidated:
                                                  Benchmark is greater than 60%
                                                  September 2021 – Favourable




3. Unrestricted current ratio                     The 'unrestricted current ratio' represents a council's
                                                  ability to meet short-term obligations as they fall due.

                                                  Restrictions placed on various funding sources (e.g.
                                                  Section 7.11 developer contributions) exclude these
                                                  funds from being used in day to day operations.

                                                  Consolidated:
                                                  Benchmark is greater than 1.5x
                                                  September 2021 – Unfavourable

                                                  The ratio is below the required benchmark however
                                                  this is expected to improve during the 2021/22 year.
                                                  Council has undertaken considerable work during the
                                                  2021 financial year to increase its short term liquid
                                                  assets (internally restricted cash) which will improve
                                                  this ratio to a more satisfactory level.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                     79
                                                                                                   Reports
Ratio                                                Commentary
4. Debt Service Cover Ratio                          This ratio measures the availability of operating cash
                                                     to service debt including interest, principal and lease
                                                     payments.

                                                     Consolidated:
                                                     Benchmark is greater than 2.
                                                     September 2021 – Favourable.




5. Rates, Annual Charges, Interest & Extra Charges   This indicator assesses the impact of uncollected
Outstanding Percentage                               rates and annual charges on liquidity and the
                                                     adequacy of recovery efforts. This percentage is
                                                     based on the amount outstanding as a percentage of
                                                     the amount to be collected for rates and annual
                                                     charges for the current year and outstanding from
                                                     previous years.

                                                     The percentage will decline as the financial year
                                                     proceeds and rates instalments are due and paid.

                                                     Consolidated:
                                                     Benchmark is less than 10%.
                                                     September 2021 – Favourable




6. Cash Expense Cover Ratio                          The liquidity ratio indicates the number of months a
                                                     council can continue paying for its immediate
                                                     expenses without additional cash inflow.


                                                     Consolidated:
                                                     Benchmark is greater than 3x
                                                     September 2021 – Favourable




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                       80
                                                                                                     Reports
Ratio                                                   Commentary
7. Building & Infrastructure Renewals Ratio             This ratio is to assess the rate at which assets are
                                                        being renewed against the rate at which they are
                                                        depreciated.

                                                        Consolidated:
                                                        Benchmark is greater than 100%.
                                                        September 2021 – Unfavourable


                                                        The ratio is a snapshot of what is expected to be
                                                        spent on renewals for the 2021/22 year only. The
                                                        final ratio may be impacted due to timing of
                                                        completion of budgeted works as a result of weather
                                                        or realignment of priorities as a result of additional
                                                        grant funding from Transport for NSW.




Other
Lismore Recycling and Recovery Centre – Significant waste revenue decline
Council introduced uniform waste disposal charges at the Lismore Recycling and Recovery Centre from
1 July 2021. This change removed the historical discount provided to major commercial customers. A
review of waste disposal revenues for July 2021 - September 2021 indicated that they are less than
anticipated on a pro rata basis.

While this is an unfavourable financial outcome, it does prolong the life of the cell and reduce the risk of
reaching capacity prior to works being completed on a new cell. Although it may represent an
unfavourable cash impact to Council in 2022 year it will result in a favorable impact to Council in the
Long-Term Financial Plan.

Waste disposal revenues will continue to be monitored monthly and opportunities to reduce expenses or
generate additional revenues to offset this will be explored.

Capital
Council has an extensive capital works program listed for 2021/22. The delivery scheduled is being
reviewed in light of available resourcing and the priorities of Council. It is anticipated that there will
adjustments made to the works program with works being rescheduled for later in 2021/22 or to be
completed in 2022/23. Adjustments will be reported to Council in future QBRSs as information is
quantified.

Borrowings
Council included in its 2021/22 Operational Plan proposed borrowings for remediation works at the
Waste Facility $500,000 and Oakes Crozier Oval development $445,100. It is proposed that these works
will be funded from Council’s Internally Restricted Reserves (these were included in the Reserve report
to Council 12 October 2021). This adjustment has not been included in the September QBRS report.

Unexpended grants
Council has approximately $10 million in unexpended grant funds carried forward from 2021/22. During
the 2021/22 budget process estimates were made as to what portion of project funding was available
from unexpended grants and what portion related to new grants to be received in 2021/22. Staff are
working towards realigning the funding sources for projects and this will be reported in the December
2021. There is no change to the project delivery but there will be a change to the Income Statement of
Council (Consolidated) & Funding Sources (Consolidated).




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                                                          81
                                                                         Reports
Public consultation
Not required

Attachment/s
1.⇨    September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review Statement (Over 7 pages)




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - September 2021 Quarterly Budget Review
Statement
                                                                           82
                                                                                                Report
Report
Subject                 Write Off Debt - Quarry Sundry Debtor
TRIM Record No          BP21/405:EF20/295-1

Prepared by             Rating Officer

Reason                  The unpaid amount is not considered collectable or not commercially viable to
                        pursue.
Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                  Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
This report provides details relating to a Quarry Sundry Debtors Account in the name of Arjuna Sayers
T/As Nimbin Civil Earthworks. Debt recovery procedures have been followed to the full extent both in-
house and through Council’s Collection Agent (Executive Collections) without success.


Recommendation
That the full debt, $28,729.95, be written off (Debtor Account 2407).


Background
A credit application was processed in October 2017 and resulted in a Sundry Debtor account being
opened with a monthly credit limit of $5,000.

The first transaction was recorded at the Quarry on 19 October 2017 with the subsequent invoice for
$1,432.50 issuing in late October 2017. The amount was paid within Councils normal 30-day terms.

Invoices issued in November 2017, December 2017 and February 2018 were also paid in full but outside
the 30-day payment timeframe. In March of 2018 the account was allowed to go over the $5,000 credit
limit and whilst some payments were still being received this was far outweighed by the cost of new
product continuing to be provided. Based on the growing debt Finance placed the account on “Stop” as
at 12 July 2018. The last payment was received on 23 August 2018 and standard debt recovery
procedures were initiated.

Debt Recovery Action

The account was referred to Council’s Debt Recovery officer on 17 October 2018 and was immediately
forward to Executive Collections (EC) to start debt recovery action. The following is a summary of the
action taken:

17 October 2018       Demand letter sent
31 October 2018       Arjuna called EC requesting an arrangement of $200.00 per week and was
                      advised the request would be forwarded to Council for confirmation.
19 November 2018      Council advised EC that the arrangement was not acceptable as the amount was
                      not sufficient for the size of the debt and length of time it would take to pay.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Write Off Debt - Quarry Sundry Debtor                               83
                                                                                                    Report
22 November 2018       EC contacted Arjuna and advised Council required an arrangement of $500.00 per
                       week. Arjuna advised that they could not afford that amount, Executive Collections
                       then requested he send an email detailing his situation and that it would be
                       forward to Council. Please note no communication was received.
19 December 2018       Statement of Liquidated Claim (SOLC) lodged.
4 February 2019        Service of SOLC was attempted at registered business address. A female person
                       advised that debtor hadn’t resided there for a “long time” and that she had no
                       forwarding address or contact details.
20 February 2019       Service of SOLC was attempted at address as per the original credit application.
                       The EC staff member spoke the owner of the property who advised that Arjuna
                       moved out August 2018, leaving no forwarding address and believes he has
                       moved to “The Coast”.
28 February 2019       New mobile number located for debtor, no answer, rang out and unable to leave
                       message.
11 July 2019           Various attempts to obtain relevant contact details failed and Council, via EC,
                       requested and obtained an extension to the SOLC.
Current                Attempts to contact the company representative have continued at regular
                       intervals with no success.

Comments
Finance
Council has taken all reasonable steps to recover these funds without success, therefore the
recommendation is supported.

Council has also reviewed its practices around the approval of debtor’s applications and the application
of credit limits.

Public consultation
Not Required

Conclusion
The debtor was allowed to exceed their credit limit which played a part in the significant outstanding
debt. This issue was brought to the attention of Commercial Services Management in 2018 and Finance
was given assurances that credit limits would be strictly applied in the future. To date no further issues in
relation to limits being exceeded without authorization have occurred.

Executive Collections has continued to attempt to find relevant contact details to allow the Statement of
Liquidated Claim to be served but has been unsuccessful. Due to this no further actions are available to
recover the debt.

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Write Off Debt - Quarry Sundry Debtor                                   84
                                                                                               Report
Report
Subject                Investments - October 2021
TRIM Record No         BP21/663:EF21/92

Prepared by            Management Accountant

Reason                 Required by Local Government Act 1993, Local Government (General)
                       Regulations 2005 and Council's Investment Policy
Strategic Theme        Leadership and participation

Strategy               We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                 Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
Investments as of 31 October 2021 are estimated to be $96,027,000.

The interest rate reported for October 2021 is estimated to be 0.46% which is above the 90 Day Bank
Bill Index of 0.04%. The final interest return may vary due to actual returns achieved on investments
advised after month end.


Recommendation
That the report be received and noted.

Background
The Local Government Act, 1993 (Section 625), Local Government (General) Regulations 2005
(Clause 212) and Council’s Investment Policy requires a monthly report be submitted to Council on
investments. The report is to include the source and amount of funds invested, investment portfolio
performance for the period and a statement of compliance in relation to the requirements of the
Local Government Act, 1993.

Report on Investments
   • Confirmation of Investments – at Market Value – 30 September 2021                $ 101,377,000
   • Estimated Investments – at Market Value – 31 October 2021                        $ 96,027,000

Investments decreased from the time of writing the September Report to the end of September by $1.93
million. This was due to the payment of creditors and staff costs at the end of the month. Investments
have decreased by an additional $5.35 million during October. The main reason for this decrease is the
payment of creditors during the month of $6.29 million along with Bulk Water payment of $404,000, Loan
Repayments of $659,000 and staff costs, with October being a period that little income is received.

The current rate of return on investments for October 2021 is estimated to be 0.46% using actual returns
where available, and estimates based on the previous period balances and interest rates. This is above
the 90 Day Bank Bill Index of 0.04%.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                                         85
                                                                                                   Report
The estimated interest earned for October 2021 is $38,107. Estimated interest earned to date is
$160,642 which is more than the pro rata 2021/22 budget of $151,933. This is a favourable variance of
$8,709. The current investing environment is still complicated with liquidity levels still high for many
institutions.

Compliance with New Policy Requirements
A new investment policy was adopted by Council in May 2020. This policy shows a move towards the
framework suggested by TCorp to comply with their borrowing requirements into the future.

A plan to move towards the new policy requirements is being followed, but as can be expected, this will
take time, especially in the current COVID climate. As investments come due, wherever possible they
are moved to comply with the new policy. No investment will be broken early to fit within the new
framework.

The following is a summary of where Council’s investments currently sit in relation to the adopted policy
requirements:

                                              Maximum           Current           Divestment
        Long Term Rating
                                              Portfolio Limit   Holding           Required
        AAA                                        100%
        AA+ to AA-                                 100%               44%
        A+ to A                                    100%               17%
        A-                                         40%
        BBB+                                       20%                18%
        BBB                                        10%                10%
        BBB- and below – Local ADIs                 5%                 4%
        BBB- and below - other                      5%                 7%                 2%
        TCorp                                      100%

Fossil Free (Ethical) Investments
As part of the new policy framework and within the limits of prevailing Legislation, Council’s investments
will be made in consideration of the principals of ethical investment management.

To meet the new adopted Investment Policy requirements, the holdings in some institutions that are
fossil fuel free have been divested as they do not meet the new rating criteria. Investments in institutions
that are not fossil fuel free but provide green term deposits and bonds are continually being investigated
and will be considered within the investment framework as they become available and fit within the policy
criteria.

Council currently holds $8 million in Commonwealth Bank Green Term Deposits.

Following is a summary of the movement:

                                                 As reported for              As reported for
                                                September 2021                 October 2021
Type of Investment
                                            Value of      % of            Value of      % of
                                            Investments Portfolio         Investments Portfolio
No Investment in Fossil Fuel Industry        $45,000,000           44%      $41,000,000         43%
Investment in Fossil Fuel Industry           $58,307,000           56%      $55,027,000         57%




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                                             86
                                                                                                   Report
The amount held in investments in the Fossil Fuel Industry has decreased on a dollar value during
October but increased on a percentage basis. There has been a redemption of some investments that
were held with ADI’s that do not invest in the Fossil Fuel Industry with a move to further compliance with
the investment policy.

The information for the assessment has been sourced from the website www.marketforces.org.au which
is an affiliate project of the Friends of the Earth Australia. This is still considered the best information
available to make this assessment.

Comments
Responsible Accounting Officer
All investments with various financial institutions have been made in accordance with the
Local Government Act, 1993 and Local Government (General) Regulations 2005. A new investment
policy was adopted in May 2020 moving towards the framework suggested by TCorp to comply with their
borrowing requirements. A move towards the new policy is being made, however this is taking longer
than originally planned due to the current COVID climate and the high liquidity within financial markets.


Conclusion
A report on investments is required to be submitted to Council monthly. As of 31 October 2021,
investments total $96,027,000 and the annualised rate of return is estimated at 0.46%.

Attachment/s
1.⇩    Capital Value Movements including name of institution, purchase date and maturity
2.⇩    Estimated interest showing interest rate and estimated interest earned for the year
3.⇩    Total Investment Portfolio held by month and Weighted Average Interest Rate graphical
4.⇩    Investment by Type - graphical
5.⇩    Investment by Institution as a percentage of portfolio - graphical




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                                            87
Capital Value Movements including name of institution, purchase date and   Attachment 1
maturity




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                         88
Capital Value Movements including name of institution, purchase date and   Attachment 1
maturity




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                         89
Estimated interest showing interest rate and estimated interest earned for the   Attachment 2
year




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                               90
Estimated interest showing interest rate and estimated interest earned for the   Attachment 2
year




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                               91
Total Investment Portfolio held by month and Weighted Average Interest Rate   Attachment 3
graphical




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                            92
Investment by Type - graphical                              Attachment 4




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021          93
Investment by Institution as a percentage of portfolio - graphical   Attachment 5




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Investments - October 2021                   94
                                                                                                Report
Report
Subject                 2020/21 Financial Report
TRIM Record No          BP21/664:EF20/239

Prepared by             Management Accountant

Reason                  Legislative Requirement - Section 419 Local Government Act 1993

Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                  Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
At the 25 October 2021 meeting, Council formed its opinion on and adopted the Audited Financial
Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021.

In accordance with the Local Government Act 1993 the audited financial reports and audit report must
be presented to the public at a Council meeting. Before doing so, they must have been advertised in the
approved form and submissions from the public invited. Council has complied with these requirements.
Members of the public can make a written submission to Council up to seven days after the meeting
(16/11/21). Council must forward a copy of any submission received to the Auditor and take any action it
considers appropriate.


Recommendation
That In accordance with Section 419 of the Local Government Act 1993, the Audited Financial
Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021 and Audit Report are presented to the public.

Background
Council resolved at the 25 October 2021 meeting that:-

1. In accordance with Section 413 (2) (c) of the Local Government Act 1993 and clause 215 of the Local
   Government (General) Regulation 2005, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended
   30 June 2021 and form an opinion based on the attached ‘Statement by Councillors and
   Management’ for both the General Purpose Financial Statements and Special Purpose Financial
   Statements.
2. Delegate to the Mayor and Deputy Mayor to sign the ‘Statement by Councillors and Management’ on
   behalf of Council.
3. Delegate to the General Manager to, on receipt of the Independent Audit Reports,
     a)     set the presentation date of the Audited Financial Statements and Auditors Report, and
     b)     submit the Audited Financial Statements to the NSW Office of Local Government.
4.   In accordance with Section 705 of the Local Government Act 1993 determine the public notice
     relating to the financial statements will be advertised on Council’s website and Council’s Facebook
     page.



Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - 2020/21 Financial Report                                           95
                                                                                                 Report
Council’s resolution has been implemented, but it is important to note that the public has until 16
November 2021 to make a submission. Council is to ensure that copies of all submissions received are
referred to the Auditor and also take such action as it considers appropriate with respect to any
submission, including the giving of notice to the Director-General of any matter that appears to require
amendment of the financial reports.

A copy of the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021 is available for inspection
at Council’s Corporate Centre and on Council’s website.

Summary of Key Financial Data
The information in the summary below is consistent with the reporting requirements of the NSW Office of
Local Government. In addition, information on borrowings has been added: -

      Item                                                             2020/21        2019/20
                                                                       ($,000)        Restated
                                                                                       ($,000)
      Income Statement
      Total income from continuing operations                             142,880         141,529
      Total expenses from continuing operations                           124,209         114,045
      Operating result from continuing operations                          18,671          27,484
      Net operating result for the year                                    18,671          27,484
      Net operating result for the year before grants and
      contributions provided for capital purposes                         (14,972)          (635)
      Statement of Financial Performance
      Total current assets                                                119,503           97,401
      Total current liabilities                                           (39,462)        (30,025)
      Total non-current assets                                          1,714,861       1,678,382
      Total non-current liabilities                                       (62,348)        (65,270)
      Total equity                                                      1,732,554       1,680,488
      Other Financial Information
      Operating Performance Ratio                                          9.93%           2.74%
      Own Source Operating Revenue Ratio                                  64.37%          66.72%
      Unrestricted Current Ratio                                            1.84x           2.31x
      Debt Service Cover Ratio                                              3.04x           2.54x
      Rates, Annual Charges, Interest & Extra Charges
      Outstanding Percentage                                                9.36%           9.24%
      Cash Expense Cover Ratio                                       13.33 months    10.14 months
      Building Infrastructure & Other Structures Renewal Ratio             76.90%          88.38%
      Infrastructure Backlog Ratio                                         12.70%          10.93%
      Asset Maintenance Ratio                                              86.09%          91.30%
      External Borrowings                                                   57,501          62,680
      Internal Borrowings                                                        -             523


Comments
Finance
All Finance comments are incorporated into the body of the report.

Public consultation
The Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021, in the prescribed format, have been
advertised on Council’s Website and Facebook page on 1 November 2021 seeking public comment.
Conclusion
In accordance with the Local Government Act 1993 the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended
30 June 2021 and the Auditors Report must be presented to the public at a Council meeting. The report
is intended to meet this requirement.
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - 2020/21 Financial Report                                              96
                                                                                          Report
The Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021 have been advertised and
submissions from the public invited. At the time of preparing this report, no submissions had been
received.

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - 2020/21 Financial Report                                     97
                                                                                                 Report
Report
Subject                   Recycling and Resource Recovery Strategy 2022-2032
TRIM Record No            BP21/821:EF20/194

Prepared by               Manager Commercial Services

Reason                    To present the new waste strategy for consideration and gain approval to place
                          the strategy on public exhibition for comments.

Strategic Theme           Our natural environment

Strategy                  We are committed to resource recovery, waste management and recycling
                          innovation.
Action                    Provide effective and efficient waste collection and disposal services.



Executive Summary
Due to several key issues that have arisen in the waste and recycling industry, a new waste strategy
has been developed for Lismore City Council following a period of focused community consultation.

The draft 2022-32 Resource Recovery and Residual Waste Strategy: Sharing the Responsibility
towards a Circular Economy and Resourceful Community provides a roadmap for the transition of the
Lismore City Council area to a focus on circular economy initiatives.

It is recommended that Council exhibit the draft 2022-32 Resource Recovery and Residual Waste
Strategy for a period of at least 28 days, to enable further consultation with industry and stakeholders
and obtain further data that will inform financially modelling to support implementation.


Recommendation
That the:
    1.      draft 2022-32 Resource Recovery and Residual Waste Strategy: Sharing the Responsibility
            towards a Circular Economy and Resourceful Community be placed on public exhibition for a
            period of at least 28 days.
    2.      draft strategy be reported back to Council by April 2022.


Background
Council has been committed to reducing waste to landfill for many years and offers a range of recycling
services at the Lismore Recycling & Recovery Centre and the Nimbin Waste Transfer Station for this
purpose.

Multiple changes in the waste and recycling industry over the last couple of years – globally, within
Australia and specific to the Lismore City local government area – has resulted in a need for Council to
reconsider its approach to waste management.

Council previously adopted a five year waste strategy in 2018 and many of these actions have either
been completed or are ongoing.


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Recycling and Resource Recovery Strategy 2022-
2032
                                                                                                    98
                                                                                                  Report
Notwithstanding this however, the broader direction and priorities need to change to address several key
issues, including:
•   In January 2018, China introduced it’s ‘National Sword Policy’ and new rules around contamination
    led to much of the world’s recycling no longer being able to meet China’s new import standards.
•   In 2019, the Federal Government introduced a ban on the export of some waste products. The
    banned materials (including plastics, paper and cardboard), will financially impact Council’s Materials
    Recovery Facility (MRF).
•   The MRF is part of a national waste system and is exposed to the same volatile markets for the sale
    of recyclable products as all operators across Australia. Compounding this was a fire during the
    drought in August 2019 that caused significant damage to the MRF.
•   An increased focus on compliance has resulted in Council having to make additional investments in
    leachate and landfill capping to address legacy compliance issues.

Council has been working on developing a new waste and recycling strategy since March 2020 and has
undertaken a wide range of consultation activities with residents, businesses and industry stakeholders.

A.Prince Consulting was engaged to bring together all threads of the existing strategy, consultation
information, background information and current initiatives in waste and reducing regulation and strategy
to draft a new waste strategy for Lismore City Council. The process is broadly outlined, showing in
yellow where the strategy development is at present.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Recycling and Resource Recovery Strategy 2022-
2032
                                                                                                    99
                                                                                                          Report
The new strategy is titled; “Resource Recovery and Residual Waste Strategy 2022-32: Sharing the
Responsibility towards a Circular Economy and Resourceful Community”. The strategy is focused
on transitioning Lismore City Council and the Lismore community to a circular economy approach as a
model for sustainable growth.

This draft Resource Recovery and Residual Waste Strategy is Lismore’s City Council’s 10 year
approach to shifting from a waste attitude to one where materials and items are valued.

It is a strategy that will affect all Council policies and operations, and it is a strategy that will affect all of
us in the community – Council, households, businesses and other organisations.

It starts with a roadmap that offers direction towards doing things in a different way, a direction towards a
more resourceful community.

Once adopted in draft form, Council will be able to engage industry and stakeholders in identifying or
clarifying opportunities under the strategy, as well as current industry issues to finalise the document. At
the same, the work to align the strategy with Council’s next Delivery Program and ensure the right
funding sources and resources are allocated to actions over the first 4 years of the strategy can be
completed. This modelling will also help inform Council’s Long Term Financial Plan and finalizing
operational plan activities for the next financial year.

Other staff comments
Not required at this stage pending adoption for exhibition and further modelling of financial and
operational impacts and requirements.

Public consultation
A wide range of consultation activities has been in progress since March 2020. Further consultation and
a public exhibition period is proposed as more opportunities for stakeholders and the local community to
provide comment.

Conclusion
The draft Resource Recovery and Residual Waste Strategy 2022-32: Sharing the Responsibility
towards a Circular Economy and Resourceful Community provides a 10 year approach to shifting from a
waste attitude to one where materials and items are valued. The strategy is focused on transitioning the
Lismore local government area to a circular economy to encourage economic development and
sustainability outcomes.

It is recommended that Council publicly exhibit the draft 2022-32 Resource Recovery and Residual
Waste Strategy for a period of at least 28 days, and report to the Council in March/April 2022 when
further financial modelling and business and industry engagement has been undertaken.

Attachment/s
1.⇨ Draft 2022-32 Resource Recovery and Residual Waste Strategy: Sharing the                          (Over 7
    Responsibility towards a Circular Economy and Resourceful Community                               pages)




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Recycling and Resource Recovery Strategy 2022-
2032
                                                                                                         100
                                                                                                   Report
Report
Subject                 Digital Signing of Council Meeting Minutes
TRIM Record No          BP21/822:EF16/181

Prepared by             Records Management Coordinator

Reason                  Keeping hard copy minutes using ink signatures is an unacceptable risk.

Strategic Theme         Leadership and participation

Strategy                We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                  Ensure sound risk management practices.



Executive Summary
Official copies of minutes of Council meetings are still being kept as hard copy records that are signed
with ink signatures. They should be digitally signed and kept as electronic records.


Recommendation
That Council resolve that minutes of Council meetings are to signed digitally to allow them to be kept as
electronic records.

Background
Currently, official minutes of Council meetings are kept as hard copy records that are signed with ink
signatures. Keeping hard copy records of minutes of Council meetings is an unacceptable risk. Hard
copy records can be lost, destroyed or damaged relatively easily. Electronic records are less susceptible
to these risks. Electronic records can be backed up so that they are not lost in the event of a disaster.
They can be migrated between recordkeeping systems.

Printing electronic records and binding them in hard copy volumes to store them physically is inefficient.
Electronic records are cheaper and easier to store. Hard copy records are difficult to access as they
need to be physically secured and stored; and in person access needs to be arranged for them to be
viewed. Electronic records can be made publicly available, with any necessary appropriate security
controls.

The current process of signing hard copy of minutes of Council meetings is inefficient and time
consuming. Using digital signatures, minutes can be signed quickly and securely to create a tamper-
proof archive-quality PDF version for both recordkeeping and public access purposes.

Advice received from the Office of Local Government is that where the Local Government Act 1993
requires a council document to be signed, such as the meeting minutes or to authenticate a document, it
does not prevent the use of an electronic signature. The use of electronic signatures is ultimately a
matter for each council. However, where electronic signatures are used, it is important that councils put
in place appropriate safeguards to prevent their misuse.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Digital Signing of Council Meeting Minutes                         101
                                                                                                    Report
Under the State Records Act 1998, record means any document or other source of information compiled,
recorded or stored in written form or on film, or by electronic process, or in any other manner or by any
other means. This Act doesn’t appear to mention signatures; digital or otherwise. Advice received from a
State Archives and Records Authority of New South Wales Project Officer Government Recordkeeping is
that the Act does not present any barriers to digital signatures; so from their perspective there is no issue
with council minutes being kept in a digital format.

Several other NSW councils use electronic signatures to sign the minutes of Council meetings. Those
who responded to our enquiry about this are inserting images of signatures into digital copies of the
minutes. These include Campbelltown City Council, Fairfield City Council, Kyogle Council, Inner West
Council & Murray River Council.

Based on the above, signing minutes of Council meetings with a digital signature complies with
legislation and is accepted practice amongst NSW councils.

Comments
Finance
The recommendation as printed is supported. The proposal will reduce cost and provide greater
efficiency.

Public consultation
Not required.

Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Digital Signing of Council Meeting Minutes                          102
                                                                                                 Reports
Report
Subject                  Annual Code of Conduct Reporting for Lismore City
                         Council
TRIM Record No           BP21/870:EF17/487-03

Prepared by              Governance & Risk Manager

Reason                   Council is required to report annual Code of Conduct statistics by the Office of
                         Local Government
Strategic Theme          Leadership and participation

Strategy                 We provide effective management and responsible governance.

Action                   Ensure the efficient and effective operation of Council.



Executive Summary
Under Part 11 of the Procedures for the Administration of the Model Code of Conduct (the Procedures),
the Complaints Coordinator is required to report the annual Code of Conduct statistics to Council within
three months of the end of September each year.

The Complaints Coordinator is also required to submit this report to the Office of Local Government.



      Recommendation
That Council receive and note the attached annual report on Code of Conduct statistics for Lismore City
Council, the report will be forwarded to the Office of Local Government on 10 November 2021.


Background
This report to Council fulfils Part 11 of the Procedures for the Administration of the Model Code of
Conduct, which states that the Complaints Coordinator must report the annual statistics to Council within
three months of the end of September each year.

This information will be lodged with the Office of Local Government on 10 November 2021.

The information relating to specific complaints reported on, remains confidential, pursuant to Part 12 of
the Procedures

Attachment/s
1.⇩      Conde of Conduct statistics




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Annual Code of Conduct Reporting for
Lismore City Council
                                                                                                  103
Conde of Conduct statistics                                                   Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Annual Code of Conduct Reporting for Lismore
City Council
                                                                                  104
Conde of Conduct statistics                                                   Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Annual Code of Conduct Reporting for Lismore
City Council
                                                                                  105
Conde of Conduct statistics                                                   Attachment 1




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Annual Code of Conduct Reporting for Lismore
City Council
                                                                                  106
Committee
Recommendations
                                                         Committee Recommendation
Committee Recommendation
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021


Recommendation
That the minutes be received and adopted and the recommendations contained therein be adopted.


Attachment/s
1.⇩    Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of
20 October 2021
                                                                                          108
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021 Attachment 1
MINUTES OF THE TRAFFIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING HELD VIA MS TEAMS ON
WEDNESDAY, 20 OCTOBER 2021 AT 10.00AM

Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting.

Present
            Councillor Bill Moorhouse (Chairperson), Caleisse Dunston, Greg Aitken (Transport for NSW),
            Peter Ellem (on behalf of Janelle Saffin, MP).


In Attendance
            Barry Goodwin (Design Services Engineer) and Elsa Whelan (Administration Officer).


Apologies
TAC89/21    Apologies for non-attendance were received on behalf of Janelle Saffin, MP (Member for
            Lismore) and Sgt Clint Williams (Lismore Police).



Confirmation of Minutes
            The Committee was advised that the Traffic Advisory Committee minutes of 16 September
            2021 were received and adopted by Council at its ordinary meeting of 12 October 2021.


Disclosure of Interest
            Nil.


Part ‘A’ – Committee Recommendations
           4.1 Request for Give Way Sign - Chelmsford Road, Rock Valley
           Request received for the installation of a Give Way sign on Chelmsford Road (east),
           Rock Valley.
           The Committee has been asked to review if a Give Way sign meets the installation criteria
           at the intersection of Chelmsford Road (south) and Chelmsford Road (north) and
           Chelmsford Road (east). The writer claims there is confusion for southbound drivers on
           Chelmsford Road (north) as right of way priority for vehicles heading north to north-east at
           the Y type intersection. Chelmsford Road (north) provides access to approximately 12 rural
           properties to the north of the intersection. It is sealed at the intersection which extends to
           the north.
TAC90/21 RECOMMENDED that:
         1. Council support the request to install a Give Way sign on Chelmsford Road (east),
            Rock Valley.
         2. Council’s Design Services Team prepare a plan for installation.
           Voting for:        Councillor Bill Moorhouse, Caleisse Dunston and Peter Ellem
           Voting against:    Nil.
           Absent:            Sgt Clint William

           4.4 Traffic Guidance Scheme – Carols by Candelight, Sunday, 12 December 2021
           (Late Item)
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of
20 October 2021
                                                                                                 109
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021                             Attachment 1

           A request was received from the organisers of the Annual Carols by Candlelight planned
           for Sunday, 12 December 2021 for endorsement of the Traffic Guidance Scheme (TGS)
           provided for the event.
           The event is planned to be held at Mortimer Oval, located on the corner of Uralba Street
           and Brewster Street, with parking provided on adjacent fields to the south of Uralba Street
           and Brewster Street. Traffic controllers will manage pedestrian movements across
           Uralba Street.
           The TGS is effective between 1pm and 9pm on 12 December 2021.
           Note: The TGS was circulated to members via email for feedback after the formal meeting
           on 20 October.
TAC91/21 RECOMMENDED that Council endorse the proposed Traffic Guidance Scheme for the
         Carols by Candlelight event planned for Sunday, 12 December 2021, as provided.

           Voting for:       Councillor Bill Moorhouse, Caleisse Dunston, and Peter Ellem
           Voting against:   Nil.
           Absent:           Sgt Clint William


Items for Discussion
           5.2 Change to Parking Arrangements - Conway Street, Lismore CBD

           This matter was considered by the Committee at its meeting on 16 September 2021.
           Council has received funding under the 2021-2022 Safer Roads Program P0070642 for the
           installation of pedestrian safety devices including pedestrian fencing on the centre median
           of Conway Street, adjustment to existing kerb blisters, relocation of the existing pedestrian
           crossing and additional signage and pavement markings for advance warning of the formal
           pedestrian crossing. The funding is 100% provided by Transport for NSW for the design
           and installation of this project. Designs are currently in progress for the project with an
           anticipated project completion date by 30 December 2021.
           Community consultation has been undertaken with written notices and face to face
           enquiries with businesses and tenants of the section of Conway Street, between Carrington
           Street and Molesworth Street,       with no issues flagged. Further consultation with
           Australia Post representatives determined that the existing 15 minute parking restriction on
           the southern side of Conway Street should be extended to 30 minutes.
TAC92/21 RECOMMENDED that:
         1. The proposed infrastructure changes be endorsed for Conway Street, as approved
            under the funding nomination and changes to parking configuration (including the
            introduction of a motor cycle parking bay, Refer TAC26/20).
         2. The ½ hour parking on the northern side of Conway Street be changed to 1P restricted
            parking.
         3. The ¼ hour parking on the southern side of Conway Street be converted to ½ hour
            restricted parking.
           Voting for:       Councillor Bill Moorhouse, Caleisse Dunston, and Peter Ellem
           Voting against:   Nil.
           Absent:           Sgt Clint William

Part ‘B’ – Determined by Committee
           4.2 Request for One Way Traffic Movements - Unnamed Laneway Between
           Esmonde Street and Esyth Street, East Lismore
           Request received from Council’s Development Engineer for the Committee to consider
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of
20 October 2021
                                                                                                110
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021                   Attachment 1
            conversion of the existing two way laneway between Esmonde Street and Esyth Street
            (parallel with Wyrallah Road), East Lismore, to a one-way lane.
            The unnamed laneway is a two-way local access road under Council’s road hierarchy. It is
            a sealed road, approximately 3.9m in width.
            This area of East Lismore consists primarily of residential dwellings, with a soft drink
            factory and a number of commercial premises at the southern end of the lane requiring rear
            property access. Many of the residential dwellings, including a block of units, also utilise
            rear access to their properties from the laneway. According to Council’s Development
            Control Plan 2012, local access requires a minimum two-way lane to be 6.0m wide.
            Refuse collection is currently undertaken in a northbound direction and further feedback will
            be undertaken with Council’s Waste staff on a preferred directional flow.
            One-Way Flow Southbound – Entry via Esmonde Street
            • Sight distance meets relevant Austroads Standards in both directions along
               Esmonde Street.
            • Access onto Wyrallah Road is via the existing roundabout. However, a left-turn lane
               onto Wyrallah Road northbound is restricted to vehicles other than buses and trucks.
            Traffic Accidents at Intersection of Wyrallah Road and Esmonde Street – 2015-2020
            There have been two accidents recorded; one being a fatality during 2015-2020 and three
            accidents in total between the years 2000-2020. Council staff have applied for funding
            under the 2022/23 Safer Roads Program for the upgrade of the roundabout.
            One-Way Flow Northbound – Entry via Esyth Street
            • Sight distance may be impeded due to overhanging vegetation on the eastern side.
            • Access onto Wyrallah Road is via a T-intersection controlled by a Stop sign treatment.
            • Entering from the laneway onto Esyth Street is governed by Give Way signage
               treatment.
            • There is a driveway and laneway directly opposite the lane, which may create
               confusion as right of way priority.
            Traffic Accidents at Intersection of Wyrallah Road and Esyth Street – 2015-2020
            One accident occurred during the period 2015-2020 and five accidents recorded in total
            between the years 2000-2020.
TAC93/21 AGREED that:
         1. The Committee provide in principle support for the unnamed laneway between
            Esmonde Street and Esyth Street, East Lismore, to be converted to one-way traffic
            flow.
         2. Council’s Design Services Team conduct further investigation with stakeholders
            (including waste collection services), to determine the appropriate flow of one-way
            traffic.
         3. The matter be listed for further discussion at the next meeting pending a site inspection
            by the Committee.
            Voting for:       Councillor Bill Moorhouse, Caleisse Dunston, and Peter Ellem
            Voting against:   Nil.
            Absent:           Sgt Clint William

            4.3 Request for Convex Mirror - Caniaba Road (No. 250), Caniaba
            Request received from Caniaba resident for the installation of a convex mirror opposite the
            driveway to 250 Caniaba Road, Caniaba.
            The existing site is located approximately 2.7km west of the Bruxner Highway B60
            and 2.6km east of the Village of Caniaba. Caniaba Road is a sub-arterial road under
            Council’s road hierarchy and provides connectivity to the Village of Caniaba to the north-
            east continuing onto the Bruxner Highway B60. It also provides connectivity to the town of
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of
20 October 2021
                                                                                                 111
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021                         Attachment 1
            Casino via Spring Grove Road. It is a two-way sealed rural road with a nominal 7.0m wide
            sealed pavement, with a speed zone of 80 kph.
           Traffic volume data indicates that the average daily traffic is in the vicinity of 1,600 vehicles
           per day, including 4.5% of heavy vehicles. There have been no recorded accidents at the
           site within the 2015-2020 time period. There was an incident in 2002 involving a run off
           road incident, not relating to sight distance issues.
           Drivers exiting the property have clear sight distance to the north of more than 400m and
           approximately 180m to the south, which is compliant with relevant Austroads Guidelines.
           Sight distance is slightly impeded to the south by the instance of vegetation near the
           access location, which has previously been identified. Council has received funding under
           the 2021/22 Australian Government Black Spot Program for this section of Caniaba Road,
           which includes safety treatments for this driveway and neighbouring access. This
           construction project is planned for December 2021.
           Note:      Council has previously not supported similar requests unless in extreme
           circumstances as the mirror does not provide an accurate reflection of traffic and distances
           can be misleading. The installation of convex mirrors within the road reserve can become a
           hazard to through traffic.
TAC94/21 AGREED that:
         1. The request for installation of a convex mirror at 250 Caniaba Road, Caniaba, not be
            supported.
         2. The writer be advised that driveway access work and removal of roadside vegetation
            is included in the 2021/22 Australian Government Black Spot Program for safety works
            within this section of Caniaba Road.
           Voting for:       Councillor Bill Moorhouse, Caleisse Dunston, and Peter Ellem
           Voting against:   Nil.
           Absent:           Sgt Clint William



Items for Discussion
           5.1 Request for Speed Humps - Military Road, East Lismore

           This matter was considered by the Committee at its meeting on 16 September 2021. The
           writer has advised that pedestrians, including many children, and wildlife are at risk with
           drivers speeding along Military Road.
           Military Road is classified as a local access road under Council’s road hierarchy with
           a 50 kph speed zone. It is two-way dual lane undivided sealed road approximately 7.0m
           wide and runs north-south connecting Dalley Street and Cynthia Wilson Drive. The area is
           urban residential on the western side of Military Road, with the Army Barracks and
           East Lismore Cemetery occupying the eastern side. Traffic count data (2012) indicates an
           average daily traffic (ADT) of approximately 920 vehicles including 5% heavy vehicle, with
           an 85% speed of 57 kph. It provides access for daily school bus services which circulate
           from Dalley Street, eastbound into Oakley Avenue westbound. It also provides commercial
           daily services between Walker Street and through East Lismore. The area is used by
           school children attending the Rivers Secondary College – Lismore High Campus, which is
           located on Dalley Street, at the northern end of Military Road. It is also a high recreational
           walkers’ route including elderly residents, accessing the East Lismore Cemetery on the
           eastern side of the road.
           Between 2015-2020, there were two accidents at the intersection and an accident north of
           the intersection not related to the functionality of the roundabout. Since 2000, there has
           been one accident recorded in this section of Military Road.

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of
20 October 2021
                                                                                                   112
Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 20 October 2021                        Attachment 1
            Technical Directions - Speed Humps (Road Humps)
            The installation of speed humps can sometimes have a detrimental effect to the
            surrounding neighbourhood and as listed in Austroads Part 8 Local Area traffic
            Management, there are some impacts which need to be considered including if the location
            is on a bend, crest or at intersections; bus and designated cycle routes; designated
            emergency access routes, and streets with high commercial traffic content.
           The disadvantages of road humps include:
           • Traffic noise levels may increase just before and after the road humps due to braking,
              acceleration and the vertical displacement of vehicles
           • Discomfort for vehicle passengers and cyclists
           • They may adversely affect emergency and commercial vehicles
           • They can impact on passenger comfort when used on bus routes.
           The installation of speed humps will also include loss of onstreet parking in the vicinity of
           the speed hump and generally residents do not like the loss of parking adjacent to their
           residence. The technical directions and potential issues as a result of the installation of
           speed humps, have been discussed with the writer.
           Traffic speed data was collected with 55 kph calculated as the 85th percentile speed. The
           85th percentile is regarded as the speed which a motorist is travelling in accordance with
           the road condition and to arrive at the destination safely. It was noted that 45% of the
           vehicles travelled between 40-50 kph and 33% travelled between 50-60 kph. Based on this
           data the Committee determined to include the site for inspection by the Committee
           on 3 November 2021.
TAC95/21 AGREED that:
         1. The request for installation of speed humps on Military Road, East Lismore, not be
            supported.
         2. As agreed by the Local Police Area Command, speed patrols be conducted pending
            advice from the writer on local knowledge and traffic data provided by Council’s Design
            Services Team on vehicle speeds and times.

           3. The Committee inspect the site in preparation of further discussion at a future meeting.

           Voting for:       Councillor Bill Moorhouse, Caleisse Dunston, and Peter Ellem
           Voting against:   Nil.
           Absent:           Sgt Clint William


Closure
           This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 11.30am.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of
20 October 2021
                                                                                                113
                                                      Committee Recommendation
Committee Recommendation
Floodplain Management Committee Minutes - Meeting of 19 October 2021


Recommendation
That the attached minutes of the Lismore Floodplain Management Committee meeting held on
19 October 2021 be received and the recommendations contained in the minutes be endorsed.


Attachment/s
1.⇩   FMC Minutes 19 October 2021




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Floodplain Management Committee Minutes -
Meeting of 19 October 2021
                                                                                 114
FMC Minutes 19 October 2021                                                         Attachment 1

MINUTES OF THE LISMORE FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE HELD IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS ON TUESDAY, 19 OCTOBER 2021 AT 2-3PM


Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting. Decisions
recorded in the draft minutes are subject to the Council’s Code of Meeting Practice in relation to
rescinding decisions.

Present
              Councillor Vanessa Ekins (Chair), Councillor Elly Bird, Councillor Bill Moorhouse,
              Jeremy Stewart, Caroline Sullivan, Chad Ellis, Scott Jones, Toong Chin, Graham
              Askey and Lindy Margan.


In Attendance
              Paula Newman, LCC Strategic Planning Coordinator
              Sandra Campbell, LCC Administration
              Mark Page, Consultant, ENGENY Water Management
              Observers: Richard Trevan, Beth Trevan, Big Rob, Ross Lander


Apologies
              Andrew Logan, Ed Bennett, Scott Turner


Non Attendance
              Nil

Confirmation of Minutes
              That the Minutes from the meeting dated 20 July 2021 be confirmed

              MOVED by Cr Bird                SECONDED by Graham Askey
              (Unanimous)


Disclosure of Interest

              Nil

          4.1 Project Plan for Update of Lismore Flood Risk Management Plan

          That the Floodplain Management Committee receive and note the verbal report by Mark
          Page, Engeny Water Management, on the works program for the preparation of the
          Lismore Flood Risk Management Plan.
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Floodplain Management Committee Minutes -
Meeting of 19 October 2021
                                                                                         115
FMC Minutes 19 October 2021                                                    Attachment 1
         MOVED by Cr Ekins                  SECONDED by Cr Bird
          With the following actions:
          1.    Mark to adjust the timelines for the project
          2.    Paula to provide monthly updates to the Committee


Closure
          This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 4.05 pm.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Floodplain Management Committee Minutes -
Meeting of 19 October 2021
                                                                                   116
                        Committee Recommendations
Committee Recommendation
Planning Review Committee Meeting Minutes 26 October 2021



Recommendation
That the minutes be received and adopted and the recommendations contained therein be adopted.


Attachment/s
1.⇩   Planning Review Committee minutes




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Planning Review Committee Meeting
Minutes 26 October 2021
                                                                                          117
Planning Review Committee minutes                                 Attachment 1
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING REVIEW COMMITTEE HELD IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS ON
TUESDAY, 26 OCTOBER 2021 AT 6PM


Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting. Decisions
recorded in the draft minutes are subject to the Council’s Code of Meeting Practice in relation to
rescinding decisions.

Present
              Mayor, Councillor Ekins; Councillors Bird, Casson, Cook, Guise, Lloyd, Marks,
              Moorhouse, together with the General Manager, Director Partnerships Planning &
              Engagement, Manager Built Environment, Governance & Risk Manager and Executive
              Assistant to the General Manager & Mayor and Councillors.




Apologies
              Nil



Disclosure of Interest
              Nil




Items for Discussion

             4.1 117 Upper Tuntable Falls Road

PRCCC4/21 RESOLVED that this matter be determined under Delegated Authority.

             (Councillors Cook/Bird) (BP21/866)

             Voting for:           Councillors Bird, Casson, Cook, Ekins, Marks and Moorhouse
             Voting against:       Councillors Guise and Lloyd




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Planning Review Committee Meeting
Minutes 26 October 2021
                                                                                         118
Planning Review Committee minutes                                                           Attachment 1
             4.2 DA21/340 - 1 Rugby Road

PRCCC5/21 RESOLVED that this matter be determined under Delegated Authority.

              (Councillors Moorhouse/Bird) (BP21/884)

              Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Casson, Cook, Ekins, Lloyd, Marks and
                                      Moorhouse
              Voting against:         Councillor Guise




              4.4 DA21/452 - 1112 Bruxner Highway, McKees Hill

PRCCC6/21 RESOLVED that this matter be called up for determination by Council

              (Councillors Lloyd/Bird) (BP21/886)

              Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Casson, Cook, Ekins, Guise and Lloyd
              Voting against:         Councillors Marks and Moorhouse




At this point Councillor Lloyd disclosed a non-pecuniary, significant interest in DA21/352 as her son
attends the Living School.

Councillor Eddie Lloyd left the meeting, the time being 9.05PM.


              4.3 DA21/352 - 20 McLennan Lane

PRCCC7/21 RESOLVED that this matter be determined under Delegated Authority.

              (Councillors Bird/Moorhouse) (BP21/885)

              Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Casson, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Marks and
                                      Moorhouse
              Voting against:         Nil
              Absent:                 Councillor Lloyd




Closure
           This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 9.15pm.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Planning Review Committee Meeting
Minutes 26 October 2021
                                                                                                 119
                        Committee Recommendations
Committee Recommendations
Audit Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting - 23 August 2021


Recommendation
That the unconfirmed minutes of the 23 August 2021 and the extra ordinary 22 October 2021 meeting be
received and noted, and the recommendations contained therein be adopted.


Attachment/s
1.⇩   ARIC Minutes 23 August 2021
2.⇩   ARIC Minutes 22 October 2021




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Audit Risk and Improvement Committee
Meeting - 23 August 2021
                                                                                           120
ARIC Minutes 23 August 2021                                                               Attachment 1

MINUTES OF THE AUDIT RISK AND IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE HELD IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS
ON MONDAY, 23 AUGUST 2021 AT 9.00AM

Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting. Decisions
recorded in the draft minutes are subject to the Council’s Code of Meeting Practice in relation to
rescinding decisions.

Present
              Mr Stephen Coates (Chair), Mr Richard Jones, Mr Brian Wilkinson, Councillor Darlene
              Cook, Councillor Elly Bird.

In Attendance
              Mr Michael Donnelly Mr John Hartley (Manager Finance), Mr Geoff Dwyer (TNR), Ms
              Jody Carter (TNR), Reiky Jiang (NSW Audit Office), Mr Jarrod Lean (Grant Thornton),
              Mr Eber Butron (Director Partnerships Planning and Engagement), Mr Chris Watts
              (Manager Built Environment), Ms Christine Cotterill (Manager Governance & Risk), Ms
              Deborah McLean (Acting Audit Risk & Improvement Coordinator),


Apologies
              There were no apologies

Confirmation of Minutes
ARIC151/21    RESOLVED that the Committee adopt the minutes from the previous Audit Risk and
              Improvement Meeting held on 18 June 2021
              (Councillor Cook/Member Wilkinson)


Disclosure of Interest
              No Disclosures of Interest were identified for any item on the agenda.

              NOTE: Member Richard Jones informed the committee that he has been appointed
              Director of Trinity Catholic College Ltd and that this role may at times be relevant.

Business

             4.1 General Managers Report

ARIC152/21
             NOTE: The General Manager advised that since writing the report a potential legal
             matter involving land sales in North Lismore has arisen and provided a briefing to the
             Committee.
             RESOLVED that the Committee receives the report of the General Manager and notes
             the matters raised.
             (Member Jones/ Councillor Bird) (BP21/641)
Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Audit Risk and Improvement Committee
Meeting - 23 August 2021
                                                                                               121
ARIC Minutes 23 August 2021                                                                Attachment 1


             4.2 External Audit Report

ARIC153/21 At this time Geoff Dwyer from Thomas Noble Russell and Reiky Jiang from the NSW
           Audit Office provided the Committee with a verbal update as follows:
             Geoff Dwyer – Thomas Noble Russell verbal report
             The Interim phase of the Audit has now been completed and there were no matters that
             needed to be reported through a management letter. Mr Dwyer reported that this is a
             good finding enabling council staff to focus on matters that are still outstanding from
             previous audits.
             He also advised that the Final Management letter which will complete after year end
             phase of the audit will include an update on prior year matters. If outstanding they will
             be re-raised and those that are completed will be closed off.
             Mr Dwyer brought to the attention of committee the year end matters that will be
             focused on as reported in the Audit Plan.
             Reiky Jiang from the NSW Audit Office verbal report
             Update on the Annual Work Program recently published by the Auditor General.
             The Annual Work Program 2021-2024 is available on the Audit Office of NSW website
             and covers the NSW Audit Office Financial and Performance Audit Plan for the year
             ahead and the three-year Audit Performance Plan for State and Local Government
             sectors. The Auditor General acknowledges that the program was published at a very
             challenging time as the sectors are trying to respond to the impact of the COVID
             pandemic alongside the consequence of other emergency events, such as the 2019/20
             bush fires and subsequent flood, and also understands that cyber security remains a
             key risk for the government sector. The audit program is very much focussed on how
             the government continue to respond to all the emergencies including the administration
             of relevant grants and also the management of cyber risks. In developing the plan the
             Audit Office has consulted very broadly with different stakeholders and welcomes
             additional feedback.
             RESOLVED that the Committee receive and note the verbal update on the External
             Audit program.
             (Councillors Cook/Bird) (BP21/642)


             4.3 Financial Management Update

ARIC154/21 RESOLVED that the report be received and noted.
             (Councillors Wilkinson/Jones) (BP21/643)
             At this time Chris Watts and Eber Butron joined the meeting


             4.4 Internal Audit Report

ARIC155/21] RESOLVED that :
                   1.    The Committee receive and approve the Final Development Assessment
                         Review Report
                   2.    The actions arising from the Development Assessment Review Report be

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Audit Risk and Improvement Committee
Meeting - 23 August 2021
                                                                                                 122
ARIC Minutes 23 August 2021                                                             Attachment 1
                       included in the outstanding audit action report and presented to the next
                       meeting.
              (Councillors Bird/Cook) (BP21/644)


             4.5 Report Showing Trends on Audit Items

ARIC156/21 RESOLVED that the Committee receives the progress report on the status of audit
           items as at 30 June 2021 and the committee requests that the report be brought up to
           date for the next meeting.
             (Councillors Wilkinson/Jones) (BP21/645)

             At this time Chris Watts and Christine Cotterill left the meeting.


             4.6 Audit Risk and Improvement Committee Appraisal

ARIC157/21 RESOLVED that :
             1.    The Committee note the Chair’s report on the performance of the committee and
                   the results of the self-assessment questionnaire.
             2.    The Committee present the Chair’s report for Information to the Council at the
                   next Council meeting.
             (Councillors Bird/Jones) (BP21/649)

             At this time Geoff Dwyer, Jody Carter and Reiky Jiang left the meeting.


             4.7 Partnerships Planning and Engagement Report

ARIC158/21 RESOLVED that the Committee receives and notes the presentation by the Director
           Partnerships Planning and Engagement.
             (Councillors Wilkinson/Bird) (BP21/648)

             At this time Eber Butron left the meeting.




             4.8 Governance and Risk Update

ARIC159/21 RESOLVED that the committee receive and note the report.
             (Councillors Jones/Cook) (BP21/646)


             4.9 Legal Matters Report

ARIC160/21 RESOLVED that the committee receive and note the current legal matters underway to
           the period ended 30 June 2021.
             (Councillors Wilkinson/Cook) (BP21/640)


Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Audit Risk and Improvement Committee
Meeting - 23 August 2021
                                                                                               123
ARIC Minutes 23 August 2021                                                        Attachment 1
            4.10 ARIC action tracker, schedule of topics for next meeting and any other
            business

ARIC161/21 RESOLVED that :
             1.   The committee has reviewed and endorses the progress of the status of actions
                  arising from previous meetings.
             2.   The committee confirms topics as identified in the schedule for the next meeting.
             (Councillors Jones/Wilkinson) (BP21/647)

Closure
          This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 12.05 pm.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Audit Risk and Improvement Committee
Meeting - 23 August 2021
                                                                                              124
ARIC Minutes 22 October 2021                                      Attachment 2
MINUTES OF THE EXTRA ORDINARY AUDIT RISK AND IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE HELD IN
ZOOM ON FRIDAY, 22 OCTOBER 2021 AT 1.00PM


Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next ARIC meeting.

Present
              Stephen Coates (chairman) Richard Jones, Brian Wilkinson, Clr Darlene Cook




In Attendance
              Aveley McCann, John Hartley, Christine Cotterill, Michael Donnelly, Geoff Dwyer,
              Jarrod Lean, Jodie Carter, Kevin Franey, Reiky Jiang




Apologies
              Clr Elly Bird



Disclosure of Interest

              Nil


             4.1 Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021

ARIC160/21 RESOLVED that
                •   the Committee has received and reviewed the Audited Financial Statements for
                    the year ended 30 June 2021.
                •   the committee notes the NSW Audit Office Report on the Conduct of the Audit
                •   the committee notes the NSW Audit Office Engagement Closing Report

             (Councillors Cook/Jones) (BP21/863)
             Voting for:           Members Coates, Jones, Wilkinson, Councillor Cook,
             Voting against:       Nil



Closure
          This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 1.55 pm.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Audit Risk and Improvement Committee
Meeting - 23 August 2021
                                                                                           125
Documents for Signing and
Sealing
                        Document for Signing and Sealing
Document for Signing and Sealing
The following documents have been prepared in accordance with previous resolutions of the Council
and/or the provisions of the Local Government Act, 1993 and other relevant statues.

It is now proposed that the Council authorise the execution these documents.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Documents for Signing                                    127
                                                    Document for Signing and Sealing
Executive Summary
At Council’s ordinary meeting of 13 April 2021, it was resolved that a report be brought back to the May
2021 Council meeting to review the General Manager’s delegations with the intent of restoring a
previous practice of reporting all land occupancy agreements to Council under the heading, Documents
for Signing & Sealing.
The purpose of this report is to notify Council of those occupancy agreements that have already been
substantially negotiated and may be ready for execution prior to the General Manager’s delegations
being updated and adopted to reflect the above intent. This report does not recommend the Council
seal be affixed to these documents as this would be inconsistent with:
a) Council Corporate Procedure 1.1.36, which purpose is to limit use of the Council seal to documents
   required by law to be signed under seal; and
b) the General Manager’s delegations to grant leases and licenses at the time these agreements were
   negotiated.
This report recommends the following agreements be signed by the General Manager under existing
delegations to avoid commercial disadvantage to Council and the proposed occupiers that could suffer
if agreements were required to be reported to Council prior to being agreed.
It is noted the 28-day statutory notification period for the below listed agreements and easement on
community land has commenced. The proposal has been published on Council’s website, exhibited on
the land to which the proposal relates and given to persons who own or occupy adjoining land (or
considered to be affected by the proposal). Council staff do not expect any submissions of objection to
be received. However, at the end of the notice period, should a submission of objection be received
that cannot be resolved, Council staff will bring the matter back to Council for review and determination.

NEW AGREEMENT
Item A:        AF21/3714 New Outdoor Dining Licence Agreement for Café Capello
New outdoor dining license agreement for a period of six (6) months to Mr Che Fung Lo of Sparkle LL
Pty Ltd trading as Café Capello comprising an area of approximately 45.9m2 of improved road reserve
(blister) in front of 24 Carrington Street, Lismore (Lot 1 DP 1030966).
Premises:
45.9m2 of improved road reserve (blister) in front of Café Capello, 24 Carrington Street, Lismore (Lot 1
DP 1030966).
Licensee:
Mr Che Fung Lo of Sparkle LL Pty Ltd T/A Café Capello (ABN 17 654 027 068)
Licence Fee:
In November 2020 Council adopted the NSW Outdoor Dining Policy (the Policy) which removed fees
for outdoor dining. Council staff are in the process of handing over outdoor dining licenses to Service
NSW. Part of this process involves developing a fee structure, for improved outdoor dining areas that
extend beyond the standard footpath (such as at Café Capello). This outdoor dining license is for a
period of six months to allow for the fee structure to be developed and if approved, adopted by Council.
Permitted Use:
Outdoor dining as per Council’s existing Outdoor Dining Policy and the Policy.

Item B:    P14630 New Grazing Agreement to Tregeagle Landcare Group
Land:
Crown Reserve No. 33732: Part of 820 Tregeagle Road, Tregeagle (582 DP 728646)
Licensees:
Tregeagle Landcare Group (ABN 96 238 710 264)
License Fee:
Peppercorn rent.
Staff comments:

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Documents for Signing                                              128
                                                    Document for Signing and Sealing
Council’s Parks and Open Spaces Coordinator has advised Council recently spent approximately
$5,000 in maintenance on the reserve to slash the grass to get it down to a respectable standard. Staff
are not able to attend to maintenance of the entire reserve (due to rocks and landscape). Tregeagle
Landcare Group is currently awaiting the outcome of a grant funding application made for maintenance
of the reserve and expects to receive this outcome in December. In anticipation of receiving grant
money, the grazing of cattle will assist the Group in keeping on top of weeds.
Term:
Six (6) months (no options).
Permitted Use:
Cattle grazing.

RENEWAL AGREEMENTS
Item C:     AF17/1581 Renew License to Lismore and District Financial Counselling Service
Premises:
Crown Reserve No. 540207: Part of Old Municipal Building, being Suite 1, Suite 2, Suite 4, Suite 4A
and Suite 5A of 165 Molesworth Street, Lismore (Lot 1 DP 118542).
Licensees:
Lismore and District Financial Counselling Services Incorporated (ABN 12 177 965 157)
License Fee:
$1,766.53 incl. GST per month.
Term:
One (1) year (no options)
Permitted Use:
Office space used for purpose of community, training, education, meetings, sales and storage.

Item D:    AF19/2458 Renew License to Sigrid Macdonald and Hilary McPherson
Premises:
Crown Reserve No. 540207: Part of Old Municipal Building, being Suite 3A of 165 Molesworth Street,
Lismore (Lot 1 DP118542).
Licensees:
Sigrid Macdonald and Hilary McPherson
License Fee:
$93.17 incl. GST per week.
Term:
Two (2) year (no options)
Permitted Use:
Office space used for purpose of community, training, education, meetings, sales and storage.

Item E:    AF17/1536 Renew License to Lismore Croquet Club Incorporated
Premises:
Crown Reserve No. 85348: Spinks Park Croquet Court, 115 Molesworth Street, Lismore (Lot 2
DP 1235498).
Licensees:
Lismore Croquet Club Incorporated (ABN 22 483 195 191)
License Fee:
Continuation of current rent + CPI (Market value)
Term:
Five (5) years (no options)
Permitted Use:

Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Documents for Signing                                            129
                                                   Document for Signing and Sealing
Sporting and organised recreational activities, meetings and storage.

GRANTING OF EASEMENT
Item F:    CDR21/1766 Easement for Tullera Community Hall
Burdened Council Land: Spinaze Park, 686 Dunoon Road, Tullera (Lot 32 DP 856398)
Benefited land: Tullera Community Hall, 682 Dunoon Road, Tullera (Lot 1 DP 320291)
Owned by:       Tullera Community Hall Inc (ABN 85 128 008 001)
Purpose:        Easement to drain sewerage 3m wide
Location:       Refer to Images 1 and 2 below. Plumber has recommended due to root barriers of fig
                tree, survey plan be amended to roadside of amenity block.
Compensation: Market value
Costs:          Council’s legal, valuation and administration costs to be paid by applicant.
Staff Comment: Council’s recently upgraded onsite sewerage management system at Spinaze Park
                amenity block was designed to allow connection of services from Tullera
                Hall. This granting of easement forms part of the last stages of an approval
                process and may be granted by Council under s46 of the Local Government Act, 1993.

Image 1: Site plan showing Tullera Hall connection to Spinaze Park amenity block
Note: Plumber recommends due to root barriers of fig tree, connection be amended to roadside of
toilets.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Documents for Signing                                      130
                                                    Document for Signing and Sealing
Image 2: Draft Plan of Proposed Easement
Note: Plumber recommends due to root barriers of fig tree, easement be amended to roadside of toilets.




GENERAL MANAGER’S DELEGATION
Item G As noted in the introduction of this report, at Council’s ordinary meeting of 13 April 2021, it was
       resolved that a report be brought back to the May 2021 Council meeting to review the
       General Manager’s delegations with the intent of restoring a previous practice of reporting all
       land occupancy agreements to Council under the heading, Documents for Signing & Sealing.
        It is acknowledged this November 2021 Council meeting will be the last meeting available to
        report agreements until Council’s February 2022 meeting.
        It is recommended Council provide support, during this said period when Council does not
        meet, for the General Manager to sign substantially negotiated and ready for execution
        agreements under existing delegations. This is to avoid commercial disadvantage to Council
        that could suffer if agreements were required to be reported to Council prior to being agreed.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Documents for Signing                                              131
                                                  Document for Signing and Sealing
Recommendation
That Council note the following tenure be executed under delegated authority by the General Manager:
    A.    New Outdoor Dining License with Mr Che Fung Lo of Sparkle LL Pty Ltd T/A Café
          Capello (ABN 17 654 027 068) over the improved road reserve (blister) in front of 24
          Carrington Street, Lismore (Lot 1 in DP 1030966). (ref AF21/3714)

    B.    New Grazing License to Tregeagle Landcare Group (ABN 96 238 710 264) for Crown
          Reserve No. 33732: Part of 820 Tregeagle Road, Tregeagle (582 DP 728646) for a six (6)
          month term (no options). (ref P14630)

    C.    Renew License to Lismore and District Financial Counselling Service (ABN 12 177 965
          157) for Crown Reserve No. 540207: Part of Old Municipal Building, being Suite 1, Suite 2,
          Suite 4, Suite 4A and Suite 5A of 165 Molesworth Street, Lismore (Lot 1 DP118542) for a one
          (1) year term (no options). (ref AF17/1581)

    D.    Renew License to Sigrid Macdonald and Hilary McPherson
          Crown Reserve No. 540207: Part of Old Municipal Building, being Suite 3A of 165 Molesworth
          Street, Lismore (Lot 1 DP118542) for a two (2) year term (no options). (ref AF19/2458)

    E.    Renew License to Lismore Croquet Club Incorporated (ABN 22 483 195 191) for Crown
          Reserve No. 85348: Spinks Park Croquet Court, 115 Molesworth Street, Lismore (Lot 2
          DP1235498) for a five (5) year term (no options). (ref AF17/1536)

    F.    Easement for Tullera Community Hall Inc (ABN 85 128 008 001)
          Burdened Council Land: Spinaze Park, 686 Dunoon Road, Tullera (Lot 32 DP 856398)
          Benefited land: Tullera Community Hall, 682 Dunoon Road, Tullera (Lot 1 DP 320291)
          Owned by: Tullera Community Hall Inc (ABN 85 128 008 001)
          Purpose: Easement to drain sewerage 3m wide
          Location: To be determined by survey
          Compensation: Market value
          Costs: Council’s legal, valuation and administration costs to be paid                    by
          applicant. (ref CDR21/1766)

    G.    General Manager Delegation
          Effective for the period from 10 November 2021 until 8 February 2022, Council delegate
          authority to the General Manager to sign substantially negotiated and ready for execution
          agreements under existing delegations, subject to regular updates being provided to
          Councillors on executed agreements during this period.


Attachment/s
There are no attachments for this report.




Lismore City Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Documents for Signing                                         132
Confidential Business
                                    Confidential Matters
Confidential Matters–Closed Council Meeting
A Council may close to the public only so much of its meeting as comprises the receipt or discussion of
any of the following:

Section 10A(2) – Local Government Act 1993:

   a) personnel matters concerning particular individuals;
   b) the personal hardship of any resident or ratepayer;
   c) information that would, if disclosed, confer a commercial advantage of a person with whom the
      Council is conducting (or proposes to conduct) business;
   d) commercial information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed:
      i) prejudice the commercial position of the person who supplied it, or
      ii) confer a commercial advantage on a competitor of the Council, or
      iii) reveal a trade secret;
   e) information that would, if disclosed, prejudice the maintenance of law;
   f) matters affecting security of the Council, Councillors, Council staff or Council property;
   g) advice concerning litigation, or advice, that would otherwise be privileged from production in legal
      proceedings on the grounds of legal professional privilege;
   h) information concerning the nature and location of a place or an item of Aboriginal significance on
      community land.

Clause 34 of Council Code of Meeting Practice
Representations from the public as to whether part of the meeting should be closed to the public can be
made after the motion to close the meeting has been moved and seconded for a period of 10 minutes.

Recommendation

That the Council exclude members of the press and public from the meeting and move into Closed
Council Meeting to consider the following matters:

Item                18.1 Sundry Debtors Accounts Write Off
Grounds for Closure Section 10A(2) (b):
Public Interest     Discussion of this matter in an open meeting would on balance be contrary to
                    the public interest because it relates to:the personal hardship of any resident or
                    ratepayer.




Council
Meeting held 9 November 2021 - Confidential Matters                                              134
MINUTES OF THE ORDINARY MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LISMORE HELD IN
COUNCIL CHAMBERS ON TUESDAY, 12 OCTOBER 2021 AT 6PM


Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting. Decisions
recorded in the draft minutes are subject to the Council’s Code of Meeting Practice in relation to
rescinding decisions.

Present
          Mayor, Councillor Ekins; Councillors Bird, Cook, Guise, Lloyd, Marks, Moorhouse, together
          with the General Manager, Director Corporate Services, Director Infrastructure Services,
          Director Partnerships, Planning & Engagement, Manager Finance, Manager Built
          Environment, Manager Technology and Innovation, Strategic Planning Coordinator,
          Planning Coordinator, Coordinator Regulatory Services, Development Assessment Officer
          (Planning), Technology Support Officer, Governance & Risk Manager and Executive
          Assistant to the General Manager & Mayor and Councillors.




Apologies and Leave of Absence
53/21     RESOLVED that:
              1. an apology be accepted for Cr Casson
              2. a leave of absence be accepted for Cr Bird for 21-25 October 2021

          (Councillors Marks/Lloyd)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Nil




Confirmation of Minutes of Previous Meeting
54/21     RESOLVED that the minutes of the following meetings be confirmed:

              •   Ordinary Meeting held on 14 September 2021
              •   Confidential Meeting held on 14 September 2021

          (Councillors Marks/Bird)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Nil



Disclosure of Interest
55/21     RESOLVED that:

          Cr Cook declared a Non-Pecuniary, Non-Significant Conflict of Interest for the
          following item: 16.1 Documents for Signing
           Nature: item B Cr Cook rented a car parking space from the lessors more than 5 years
           ago

           Cr Guise declared a Non-Pecuniary, Significant Conflict of Interest for the following
           item: 13.2 Lismore Base Hospital Precinct – Parking Controls and COVID-19
           Nature: Cr Guise works for NSW Health

           (Councillors Cook/Moorhouse)

           Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
           Voting against:         Nil




Public Access Session on Agenda Items
Prior to dealing with the circulated reports and associated information, a Public Access Session was held
at which Council was addressed by the following:

    Notice of Rescission Motion
          9.1 Notice of Rescission - DA5.2020.488.1 - 92 Lot Subdivision at 805 and 811 Ballina
          Road, Goonellabah

           FOR               John McMahon, Goonellabah Developments P/L

                             Alex Greig, Goonellabah Developments P/L

                             Wade Fletcher, CivilTech Consultation Engineers

                             Douglas Blythe, Goonellabah Tucki Creek Landcare

                             Paul King, Strata Title Management

                             Bill Knobel, Goonellabah Developments P/L

                             Graham Meineke, Goonellabah Developments P/L


    Notice of Motion
          10.1 Draft Browns Creek Naturalisation

           AGAINST           Big Rob



Councillor Adam Guise left the meeting, the time being 6:52PM




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                 136
    Matters Arising
           13.2 Lismore Base Hospital Precinct – Parking Controls and COVID-19

          AGAINST          Big Rob



Councillor Adam Guise returned to the meeting, the time being 6:53PM


         14.2 DA21/57 - 135 Union Street South Lismore 2480 - To undertake the erection of a
         service station and associated works

          AGAINST          Kevin Handcock

                           Phillip Terry

                           Cath Piltz

                           Beki Davies

          FOR              Youil Adam, Spectrum Retail Group

                           Greg Peddie, Spectrum Retail Group


         14.3 DA20/78 - 30 Crawford Road - Telecommunications Facility

          AGAINST          Sean O’Shannessy, North East Forest Alliance

          FOR              Michael Marom, Telstra

                           Kuda Dzino, Service Stream



At this point the meeting adjourned for a short recess, the time being 7.44PM.

The meeting resumed at 7.50PM.


Mayoral Minute(s) and Condolence Motions




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                        137
Notice of Rescission Motions

          9.1 Notice of Rescission - DA5.2020.488.1 - 92 Lot Subdivision at 805 and 811 Ballina
          Road, Goonellabah

56/21     DEFEATED that Council rescind its decision on Item 14.1 from 14 September 2021
          meeting.

          (Councillors Marks/Bird) (BP21/777)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook and Marks
          Voting against:        Councillors Ekins, Guise, Lloyd and Moorhouse




Notice of Motions

          10.1 Draft Browns Creek Naturalisation

57/21     RESOLVED that Council:
               1.   affirms its commitment and high prioritisation of the naturalisation of Browns
                    Creek as Stage 1 of Lismore Park redevelopment and that allocated funds are
                    retained for this purpose in any review of the Urban Stormwater Management
                    Plan (USMP).
               2.   provides a possible timeline for the project, design options and breakdown of
                    construction and maintenance costs at a Council workshop this financial year.

          (Councillors Ekins/Guise) (BP21/810)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise and Lloyd
          Voting against:        Councillors Marks and Moorhouse




          10.2 Infrastructure Contributions

58/21     RESOLVED that Council:
              1.    calls on the NSW State Government to:
                    a)    withdraw the Environmental Planning and Assessment Amendment
                          (Infrastructure Contributions) Bill 2021 (the Bill) from the NSW Parliament.
                    b)    undertake further consultation with the local government sector on any
                          proposed reforms to the infrastructure contributions system.
              2.    writes to the local State Member Janelle Saffin MP, the Premier Dominic
                    Perrottet MP, Treasurer Matt Kean MP, Minister for Planning and Public Spaces
                    Rob Stokes MP and Minister for Local Government Shelley Hancock MP
                    seeking them to withdraw the Bill.


Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                 138
              3.    alerts the local media to the threat of future ratepayer funds being expended
                    rather than developer levies for new infrastructure brought about by increased
                    development under the proposed legislation and shares and promotes these
                    messages via its digital and social media channels and its networks.
              4.    affirms its support to LGNSW and requests LGNSW continue advocating on our
                    behalf to protect local government from any amendments to infrastructure
                    contributions which leaves councils and communities exposed to expending
                    ratepayer funds on new infrastructure made necessary by new development,
                    currently the responsibility of developers.

          (Councillors Ekins/Bird) (BP21/812)

          Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:         Nil




Councillor Adam Guise left the meeting, the time being 8:53PM
Councillor Adam Guise returned to the meeting, the time being 8:55PM


Matter of Urgency
59/21     MOTION moved that the following issue be considered as a matter of urgency.

          That Council urgently write to Janelle Saffin MP, Premier Dominic Perrottet and Deputy
          Premier Paul Toole seeking urgent changes to the NSW Government roadmap to
          reopening for regional communities who have not achieved the same rates of vaccination
          as metropolitan communities;
              1. Change access requirements to restricted premises to allow access for people with
                 one dose of a vaccine;
              2. Extend the date for repeal of clause 4 (a) to allow workers with one dose to be able
                 to work beyond 1st November;
              3. Delay regional travel until at least 1st November or when regional communities
                 consistently reach 80% double dose;
              4. Retain financial support for impacted businesses until 1st December;
              5. Request that the Member for Lismore consider making a Private Members
                 Statement to Parliament on this matter

          (Councillor Bird)

          At this time the Mayor ruled that this is a matter of urgency due to the timeframe involved.

60/21     RESOLVED that Council urgently write to Janelle Saffin MP, Premier Dominic Perrottet
          and Deputy Premier Paul Toole seeking urgent changes to the NSW Government roadmap
          to reopening for regional communities who have not achieved the same rates of
          vaccination as metropolitan communities;
              1. Change access requirements to restricted premises to allow access for people with
                 one dose of a vaccine;


Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                 139
              2. Extend the date for repeal of clause 4 (a) to allow workers with one dose to be able
                 to work beyond 1st November;
              3. Delay regional travel until at least 1st November or when regional communities
                 consistently reach 80% double dose;
              4. Retain financial support for impacted businesses until 1st December;
              5. Request that the Member for Lismore consider making a Private Members
                 Statement to Parliament on this matter

          (Councillors Bird/Ekins)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Nil




Altering Order of Business (Consideration of altering the order of
business to debate matters raised during Public Access Session)
61/21     RESOLVED that the order of business be altered to debate the following matters raised
          during Public Access:

              •   13.2 Lismore Base Hospital Precinct - Parking Controls and COVID – 19
              •   14.2 DA21/57 - 135 Union Street South Lismore 2480 - To undertake the erection
                  of a service station and associated works
              •   14.3 DA20/78 - 30 Crawford Road - Telecommunications Facility

          (Councillors Marks/Lloyd)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Nil




Councillor Adam Guise left the meeting, the time being 8:59PM




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                               140
          13.2 Lismore Base Hospital Precinct - Parking Controls and COVID-19

62/21     RESOLVED that Council:
              1. acknowledges the valuable contribution of our frontline workers at
                 our hospitals and t heir ongoing efforts to keep our community safe during
                 the COVID-19 pandemic.
              2. continues the current free parking on Hunter St and Dalziel St in
                 the Hospital precinct and waives restrictions on parking on Weaver St,
                 Laurel Ave, and McKenzie St.
              3. brings this matter back to Council at the April 2022 meeting for a further decision.
              4. writes to the Premier, the Minister for Health, and the Member for Lismore,
                 requesting financial reimbursement for Council’s loss of revenue
                 incurred by our support for state government employees and requests
                 immediate implementation of the Stage 2 development of NSW Health’s
                 parking station.

          (Councillors Cook/Marks) (BP21/809)

          Voting for:              Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:          Nil



Councillor Adam Guise returned to the meeting, the time being 9:06PM


          14.2 DA21/57 - 135 Union Street South Lismore 2480 - To undertake the erection of a
          service station and associated works

          MOTION moved that Development Application No. 2021/57 to undertake demolition of
          existing structures, removal of 6 trees, filling of the site and the erection of a service station
          and convenience store and associated works be approved subject to the imposition of
          draft conditions as found in Attachment 1 - Proposed Conditions of Consent.
          (Councillors Marks/Moorhouse)
          FORESHADOWED MOTION that DA21/57 - 135 Union Street South Lismore 2480 be
          refused on the following grounds of Section 4.15 of the Environment Planning &
          Assessment Act 1979:

              •   the impact on the environment
              •   social & economic impacts
              •   the public interest

          (Councillor Guise)
63/21     On submission to the meeting the motion was DEFEATED that Development Application
          No. 2021/57 to undertake demolition of existing structures, removal of 6 trees, filling of the
          site and the erection of a service station and convenience store and associated works be
          approved subject to the imposition of draft conditions as found in Attachment 1 - Proposed
          Conditions of Consent.

          (Councillors Marks/Moorhouse) (BP21/668)

Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                     141
           Voting for:            Councillors Cook, Marks and Moorhouse
           Voting against:        Councillors Bird, Ekins, Guise and Lloyd

           On submission to the meeting the foreshadowed motion became the motion and was
           amended that it is proposed the Development Application be determined
           by refusing Consent.

           The reasons for the refusal are:

              1. The likely impacts of the development on the locality, as it has not been adequately
                 demonstrated that the proposed Service Station will not have an adverse effect on
                 the road network, and or the amenity of the area;
              2. Insufficient information has been provided in terms of likely environmental impact
                 (EP&A Act Cl 4.15), inclusive of impacts upon Hollingsworth creek;

              3. The site is not suitable for the proposed development and therefore does not
                 comply with Cl 4.15, of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979; and

              4. The proposed development is not in the public interest (EP&A Act Cl 4.15 )
                 because of the risk to the safety of the customers/occupants, adjoining owners,
                 pedestrians and vehicles.

           (Councillors Guise/Bird)

           Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Ekins, Guise and Lloyd
           Voting against:        Councillors Cook, Marks and Moorhouse




Councillor Elly Bird left the meeting, the time being 9:35PM
Councillor Elly Bird returned to the meeting, the time being 9:37PM




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                142
          14.3 DA20/78 - 30 Crawford Road - Telecommunications Facility

          That the Development Application 20/78 be determined by refusing of Consent.

          The reasons for the refusal are:

              1. The likely environmental impacts of the development on the koala population and
                 the koala corridor they depend on as it has not been adequately demonstrated that
                 the proposed Telecommunications Facility will not have an adverse effect on the
                 koalas that traverse the site pursuant to s 4.15(1)(b) of the Environmental Planning
                 and Assessment Act 1979;
              2. The potential impact on sites of cultural significance for the traditional custodians
                 pursuant to s 4.15(1)(b) of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979;
              3. The site is not suitable for the proposed development pursuant to s 4.15(1)(c) of the
                 Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979; and
              4. The granting of consent would not be in the public interest in accordance with the
                 provisions of s4.15(1)(e) of the Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979.

          (Councillors Lloyd/Guise)
          FORESHADOWED MOTION that Development Application No. 2020/78 for the installation
          of a telecommunications facility comprising of a 35-metre-high monopole with equipment
          shelter, access track and associated works be approved subject to the imposition of draft
          conditions as found in Attachment 1 - Proposed Conditions of Consent.

          (Councillor Cook)
64/21     RESOLVED that the Development Application 20/78 be determined by refusing of
          Consent.

          The reasons for the refusal are:

              1. The likely environmental impacts of the development on the koala population and
                 the koala corridor they depend on as it has not been adequately demonstrated that
                 the proposed Telecommunications Facility will not have an adverse effect on the
                 koalas that traverse the site pursuant to s 4.15(1)(b) of the Environmental Planning
                 and Assessment Act 1979;
              2. The potential impact on sites of cultural significance for the traditional custodians
                 pursuant to s 4.15(1)(b) of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979;
              3. The site is not suitable for the proposed development pursuant to s 4.15(1)(c) of the
                 Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979; and
              4. The granting of consent would not be in the public interest in accordance with the
                 provisions of s4.15(1)(e) of the Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979.

          (Councillors Lloyd/Guise) (BP21/37)

          Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Ekins, Guise and Lloyd
          Voting against:         Councillors Cook, Marks and Moorhouse




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                 143
Matters Arising

          13.1 Reclassification of Riverview Park from Operational to Community

65/21     RESOLVED that pursuant to Sections 27 and 33 of the Local Government Act 1993,
          Council resolve to reclassify the parcels listed below from Operational land to Community
          land:
             •    Lot 1 in DP 1269893 - 210A Union Street, South Lismore (part of closed road)
             •    Lot 3 in DP 1269893 - 182A Union Street, South Lismore (main part of Riverview
                  Park)
             •    Lot 6, Section 2 in DP 1691 – 208B Union Street, South Lismore (thin strip along
                  southern boundary of Riverview Park)

          (Councillors Bird/Moorhouse) (BP21/571)

          Voting for:              Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:          Nil




Reports of the General Manager

          14.1 Nimbin Special Business Rate Variation Levy - Fund Acquittal

66/21     RESOLVED that:
                 1.   Council confirms the financial report provided by the Nimbin Chamber of
                      Commerce for the expenditure of the Nimbin Special Business Rate Variation
                      Levy for the period 1 July 2019 to 30 September 2021.
                 2.   Council releases the 2021/2022 Nimbin Special Business Rate Variation Levy
                      amount of $16,500 (excluding GST) to the Nimbin Chamber of Commerce.
                 3.   the Nimbin Chamber of Commerce is to provide an annual report to Council on
                      the acquittal of said funds for the period 1 October 2021 to 30 September 2022.

          (Councillors Moorhouse/Marks) (BP21/776)

          Voting for:              Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:          Nil




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                144
          14.4 Sixth Round of General Amendments to the Lismore Environmental Plan 2012

67/21     RESOLVED that:
                1.   Council supports the Planning Proposal for general amendments to the Lismore
                     Local Environmental Plan 2012 as described in Attached 1 of this report and
                     itemised below:
                     Item 1 - Land Use Table ‘School Based Childcare’ in industrial zones
                     Item 2 - Clause 4.2B dwelling entitlement issue
                     Item 3 - 7 Engine Street, South Lismore - Heritage classification
                     Item 4 - 450 Alphadale Road, Tregeagle – include in Schedule 5 and Heritage
                     Map
                     Item 5 – 2 Cassia Crescent, Goonellabah – rezoning
                     Item 6 – 10 Eden Street, Girards Hill – part rezoning
                     Item 7 – 182A Union Street, South Lismore – part rezoning
                     Item 8 – 210A Union Street, South Lismore – part rezoning
                     Item 9 – 210 Union Street, South Lismore – part rezoning
                     Item 10 – 13 Spurfield Road, McLeans Ridges – rezoning
                     Item 11 – 15 Holland Street, Goonellabah – part rezoning
                     Item 12 – Archibald Place, South Lismore - rezoning

                2.   the Planning Proposal at Attachment 1 is forwarded to the Department of
                     Planning, Industry and Environment for a Gateway Determination;

                3.   Council confirms that staff are to proceed to public exhibition of the planning
                     proposal and government agency consultation based on the Gateway
                     Determination and report back to Council with any issues as part of post-
                     exhibition reporting of submissions.

          (Councillors Marks/Cook) (BP21/767)

          Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:         Councillors Guise and Lloyd




          14.5 Investments - September 2021

68/21     RESOLVED that the report be received and noted.

          (Councillors Cook/Moorhouse) (BP21/662)

          Voting for:             Councillors Bird, Cook, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:         Councillors Ekins, Guise and Lloyd




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                   145
          14.6 2021/22 Capital Works and Fleet Replacement Program - Delegations to General
          Manager

69/21     RESOLVED that for project/s included in the 2021/22 Capital Works Program and
          Fleet Replacement Program which are subject of a tender process to deliver all or part of
          the project scope:
               1.   In accordance with Section 377(1) of the Local Government Act, 1993 delegated
                    authority be given to the General Manager to determine the tender/s up
                    until 1 March 2022.
               2.   In accordance with Section 393B(2) of the Local Government (General)
                    Regulation 2005, in the event that a capital works tender requires determination
                    within the Council caretaker period, the General Manager is authorised to write
                    to the Minister for Local Government seeking consent to exercise its functions
                    relating to the award of contracts.
               3.   Upon acceptance of a suitable tender and consent from the Minister (if
                    applicable), the General Manager be authorised to execute a contract for the
                    specific package of work.
               4.   The General Manager report to Councillors via City Notes the details of the
                    successful tenderers and provide progress updates throughout the delivery of
                    the projects under this delegation.

          (Councillors Moorhouse/Bird) (BP21/797)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Councillor Lloyd




          14.7 Council Financial Report - September 2021

70/21     RESOLVED that Councillors note the contents of the report and the potential impact on
          Council’s 2021/22 Operational Plan.

          (Councillors Bird/Cook) (BP21/807)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Councillors Guise and Lloyd




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                               146
          14.8 2020/21 Reserves (Internally Restricted)

71/21     RESOLVED that Council adopts the 2020/21 Reserves (Internally Restricted) annual
          report which has reserves of $23,890,800 as at 30 June 2021.

          (Councillors Bird/Cook) (BP21/808)

          Voting for:           Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:       Nil




          14.9 Annual Pecuniary Interest Returns

72/21     RESOLVED that the report be received, and the tabled Pecuniary Interest Returns be
          acknowledged.

          (Councillors Marks/Cook) (BP21/818)

          Voting for:           Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:       Nil




Committee Recommendations

          15.1 Traffic Advisory Committee Minutes - Meeting of 15 September 2021

73/21     RESOLVED that the minutes be received and adopted and the recommendations
          contained therein be adopted.

          (Councillors Moorhouse/Marks) (BP21/811)

          Voting for:           Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:       Nil




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                           147
          15.2 Planning Review Committee Meeting Minutes 28 September 2021

74/21     RESOLVED that the minutes be received and adopted and the recommendations
          contained therein be adopted.

          (Councillors Marks/Cook) (BP21/816)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Councillor Guise




Documents for Signing and Sealing

          16.1 Documents for Signing

75/21     RESOLVED that Council note the following tenure be executed under delegated authority
          by the General Manager:
          A. New License to Far North Coast Baseball Association Inc (ABN 94 592 254 686)
             and to Far North Coast Softball Association Inc (ABN 35 536 592 339) over part of
             the Crown Community land known as Albert Park Reserve situated at 338 Keen Street,
             Lismore (Lot 237 in DP 755718), with the term of each license being for five (5) years
             (no options) - Baseball from 1 October to 31 March each year (summer season) and
             Softball from 1 April to 30 September each year (winter season). (Ref. AF19/3192)

          B. New Lease to Lismore City Council from Susan Cuthbertson, Mark Hargreaves
             and Jueves Pty Ltd over outdoor area forming part of 11 County Lane, Lismore (Lot 3
             in DP 817930), for outdoor public green space for passive recreation, activation and
             utilisation, with the lease term being for one (1) year with an option to renew for a
             further period of two (2) years. (Ref. CDR21/1223)

          C. New Airspace Access License Agreement to Ooh!media Regional Pty Ltd (ACN
             062 090 653) to use and access a small section of airspace over road reserve in
             King Street, Lismore (adjacent to 123 Woodlark Street, Lot 12 in DP 1125348) to
             display third party advertising on a digital advertising sign, with the license term being
             ten (10) years commencing on the date which advertising is first displayed on the
             digital screen. Options to renew this license will be considered in the context of the
             Main Agreement between oOh!media and landowners of 123 Woodlark Street,
             Lismore. (Ref. AF19/3029)

          (Councillors Marks/Bird) (BP21/803)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Nil




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                 148
Continuation of Meeting
76/21     RESOLVED that the time being 10.32pm the meeting continue to the end of the business
          paper.

          (Councillors Marks/Bird)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Nil




Financial Assistance – Section 356

Confidential Matters – Closed Council Meeting
77/21     RESOLVED that Council now exclude the press and public and meet in Closed Council to
          consider the following matters;

          Item                18.1 Land Acquisition for Lismore Employment Lands Mandatory
                              Environmental Compensatory Works
          Grounds for Closure Section 10A(2) (c):
          Public Interest     Discussion of this matter in an open meeting would on balance be
                              contrary to the public interest because it relates to: information
                              that would, if disclosed, confer a commercial advantage on a
                              person with whom the Council is conducting (or proposes to
                              conduct) business.
          Item                18.2 Tender T2021-20 Provision of Vegetation Services
          Grounds for Closure Section 10A(2) (d i):
          Public Interest     Discussion of this matter in an open meeting would on balance be
                              contrary to the public interest because it relates to: commercial
                              information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed
                              prejudice the commercial position of the person who supplied it.

          (Councillors Bird/Moorhouse)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Councillors Guise and Lloyd




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                            149
Resumption of Open Council
          When the Council had resumed its former sitting, the Mayor reported that Council, meeting
          in Closed Session, had RECOMMENDED:

          18.1 Land Acquisition for Lismore Employment Lands Mandatory Environmental
          Compensatory Works

              1. Council note the mandatory environmental compensatory requirements in the REF
                 for the Lismore Employment Lands project.
              2. Council endorse Option 1 as outlined in the report as the preferred option to meet
                 the environmental compensatory requirements in the REF for the Lismore
                 Employment Lands project.
              3. The General Manager be delegated authority to negotiate the acquisition of the
                 identified portion of land in Option 1 and sign all documents necessary to transfer
                 the land to Lismore City Council.

          18.2 Tender T2021-20 Provision of Vegetation Services

              1. Council accept the list of suppliers included in the Tender Submission section of
                 this report, to form an un-ranked panel of approved providers for Tender T2021-20
                 Provision of Vegetation Services.
              2. The panel be awarded for an initial one (1) year period, plus one (1) year with an
                 option to extend for an additional one (1) year at Council’s absolute discretion.
              3. Council implements the engagement of Tender 2021-20 Provision of Vegetation
                 Services in line with the schedule of rates stated within the tender submissions.
              4. The General Manager be authorised to approve purchases without a fixed upper
                 limit of expenditure from an approved budget source for Tender 2021-20 Provision
                 of Vegetation Services.
              5. Council delegate authority to the General Manager to exercise the options when
                 required to extend the contract/s subject to the satisfactory performance of the
                 suppliers.
              6. Council delegate authority to the General Manager to add new contractors during
                 the life of the contract, starting from six (6) months after the initial engagement. The
                 new contractors will also be required to complete all compliance requirements and
                 be approved for inclusion by the assessment panel.


Closure
          This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 10.45pm.

          CONFIRMED this > > 2021 at which meeting the signature herein was subscribed.


          ______________________________

          MAYOR




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                                  150
MINUTES OF THE CONFIDENTIAL MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LISMORE HELD
IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS ON TUESDAY, 12 OCTOBER 2021 AT 6PM


Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting. Decisions
recorded in the draft minutes are subject to the Council’s Code of Meeting Practice in relation to
rescinding decisions.

Present
          Mayor, Councillor Ekins; Councillors Bird, Cook, Guise, Lloyd, Marks, Moorhouse, together
          with the General Manager, Director Infrastructure Services, Director Partnerships, Planning
          & Engagement, Governance & Risk Manager and Executive Assistant to the General
          Manager & Mayor and Councillors.



          18.1 Land Acquisition for Lismore Employment Lands Mandatory Environmental
          Compensatory Works

54/21     RESOLVED that:
              1.    Council note the mandatory environmental compensatory requirements in the
                    REF for the Lismore Employment Lands project.
              2.    Council endorse Option 1 as outlined in the report as the preferred option to
                    meet the environmental compensatory requirements in the REF for the Lismore
                    Employment Lands project.
              3.    The General Manager be delegated authority to negotiate the acquisition of the
                    identified portion of land in Option 1 and sign all documents necessary to
                    transfer the land to Lismore City Council.

          (Councillors Marks/Cook) (BP21/804)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Councillor Lloyd




          18.2 Tender T2021-20 Provision of Vegetation Services

55/21     RESOLVED that:
              1.    Council accept the list of suppliers included in the Tender Submission section of
                    this report, to form an un-ranked panel of approved providers for Tender T2021-
                    20 Provision of Vegetation Services.
              2.    The panel be awarded for an initial one (1) year period, plus one (1) year with an
                    option to extend for an additional one (1) year at Council’s absolute discretion.
              3.    Council implements the engagement of Tender 2021-20 Provision of Vegetation
                    Services in line with the schedule of rates stated within the tender submissions.
              4.    The General Manager be authorised to approve purchases without a fixed upper
                    limit of expenditure from an approved budget source for Tender 2021-20
                    Provision of Vegetation Services.
              5.    Council delegate authority to the General Manager to exercise the options when
                    required to extend the contract/s subject to the satisfactory performance of the
                                                                             Council Minutes
                                                                            12 October 2021
                    suppliers.
               6.   Council delegate authority to the General Manager to add new contractors
                    during the life of the contract, starting from six (6) months after the initial
                    engagement. The new contractors will also be required to complete all
                    compliance requirements and be approved for inclusion by the assessment
                    panel.

          (Councillors Bird/Moorhouse) (BP21/817)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Councillor Guise




Resumption of Open Council
56/21     RESOLVED that Council reopen the doors to the public and return to open session.

          (Councillors Marks/Bird)

          Voting for:            Councillors Bird, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd, Marks and Moorhouse
          Voting against:        Nil




Closure
          This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 10.42pm.

          CONFIRMED this > > 2021 at which meeting the signature herein was subscribed.




          ______________________________

          MAYOR




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 12 October 2021                                              152
MINUTES OF THE EXTRA ORDINARY MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LISMORE
HELD IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS ON MONDAY, 25 OCTOBER 2021 AT 6PM


Please note: These minutes are subject to confirmation at the next Council meeting. Decisions
recorded in the draft minutes are subject to the Council’s Code of Meeting Practice in relation to
rescinding decisions.


Present
           Mayor, Councillor Ekins; Councillors Bird, Casson, Cook, Guise, Lloyd, Marks, together
           with the General Manager, Director Corporate Services, Director Infrastructure Services,
           Director Partnerships, Planning & Engagement, Manager Finance, Principal Accountant,
           Management Accountant, Technology Support Officer, External Auditor (TNR), Manager
           Governance & Risk and Executive Assistant to the General Manager & Mayor and
           Councillors.




Disclosure of Interest
           Nil


At this time the External Auditor made a presentation to Council on the Audited Financial Statements.


Reports of the General Manager

           12.1 Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021

78/21
           That:
                 1.   In accordance with Section 413 (2) (c) of the Local Government Act 1993 and
                      clause 215 of the Local Government (General) Regulation 2005, adopt the
                      Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2021 and form an
                      opinion based on the attached ‘Statement by Councillors and Management’ for
                      both the General-Purpose Financial Statements and Special Purpose Financial
                      Statements.
                 2.   Delegate to the Mayor and Deputy Mayor to sign the ‘Statement by Councillors
                      and Management’ on behalf of Council.
                 3.   Delegate to the General Manager to, on receipt of the Independent Audit Reports,
                      a) set the presentation date of the Audited Financial Statements and Auditors
                         Report, and
                      b) submit the Audited Financial Statements to the NSW Office of Local
                         Government.


                 4.   In accordance with Section 705 of the Local Government Act 1993 determine the
                      public notice relating to the financial statements will be advertised on Council’s
                      website and Council’s Facebook page.

           (Councillors Bird/Cook) (BP21/826)
                                                                               Council Minutes
                                                                              25 October 2021

          Voting for:           Councillors Bird, Casson, Cook, Ekins, Guise, Lloyd and Marks
          Voting against:       Nil




Closure
          This concluded the business and the meeting terminated at 7.30pm.

          CONFIRMED this > > 2021 at which meeting the signature herein was subscribed.




          ______________________________

          MAYOR




Lismore City Council
Minutes of Council Meeting held 25 October 2021                                           154
