Agenda of Ordinary Meeting of Council - Monday, 25 October 2021 Agenda
and Business Paper Ordinary Meeting of Council To be held on Monday 25
October 2021 at 6.00pm Civic Centre cnr Baylis and Morrow Streets, Wagga Wagga NSW 2650 (PO Box 20) P 1300 292 442 P council@wagga.nsw.gov.au wagga.nsw.gov.au NOTICE OF MEETING In pursuance of the provisions of the Local Government
Act, 1993 and the Regulations there under, notice is hereby given that an
Ordinary Meeting of the Council of the City of Wagga Wagga will be held in the
Council Chamber, Civic Centre, Corner Baylis and Morrow Streets, Wagga Wagga,
on Monday 25 October 2021 at 6.00pm. Council live streams video and audio of Council meetings.
Members of the public are advised that their voice and/or image may form part
of the webcast. Mr Peter Thompson General Manager WAGGA WAGGA CITY COUNCILLORS Mayor Councillor
  Greg Conkey
  OAM Deputy Mayor Councillor
  Dallas Tout Councillor Yvonne
  Braid Councillor Dan
  Hayes Councillor Vanessa
  Keenan Councillor Rod
  Kendall Councillor Tim
  Koschel Councillor Kerry
  Pascoe QUORUM The quorum for a
meeting of the Council is a majority of the Councillors of the Council who hold
office for the time being who are eligible to vote at the meeting. COUNCIL MEETING ROOM Reports submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council to be held on Monday 25 October 2021 . Ordinary Meeting of Council AGENDA AND BUSINESS PAPER Monday 25 October 2021 ORDER OF BUSINESS: CLAUSE               PRECIS                                                                                       PAGE PRAYER 3 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF
COUNTRY 3 APOLOGIES 3 Confirmation
of Minutes CM-1           Ordinary
Council Meeting - 11 October 2021 3 DECLARATIONS OF
INTEREST 3 Councillor
Report CR-1            Councillor
Report - Developers in Local Government 4 Reports
from Staff RP-1 PLANNING PROPOSALS - LEP18/0004 AND LEP18/0009 - GREGADOO
ROAD AND TALLOWOOD CRESCENT - AMENDMENT TO LAND ZONING AND MINIMUM LOT SIZE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE WAGGA WAGGA LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN 2010 AND AMENDMENT TO
WAGGA WAGGA DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN 2010 6 RP-2            LIVESTOCK
MARKETING CENTRE - Supply and installtion of shade sails over sheep delivery
yards 21 RP-3            Wagga
Wagga Major Overland Flow Floodplain Study (MOFFS) & The Tarcutta,
Ladysmith and Uranquinty Floodplain Study (VOFFS) 23 RP-4            ANNUAL
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2020/21 29 RP-5            New
Year's Eve 2021 & 2022 39 RP-6            FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE REPORT AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2021 47 RP-7            SECTION
356 REQUESTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 82 RP-8            PETITION
- WAGGA WAGGA TO LADYSMITH RAIL TRAIL 87 RP-9            Delegations
during the election period 92 RP-10          RESOLUTIONS
AND NOTICES OF MOTIONS REGISTERS 98 RP-11          RESPONSE
TO QUESTIONS/BUSINESS WITH NOTICE 107 Committee
Minutes M-1              CONFIRMATION
OF MINUTES AUDIT, RISK AND IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE - 7 October 2021 and ARIC
Annual Report 112 M-2              Local
Traffic Committee - Electronic Meeting - 9 September 2021 118 QUESTIONS/BUSINESS
WITH NOTICE 123 Confidential
Reports CONF-1       RFT2022-03
DUKE OF KENT COMMUNITY BUILDING DESIGN & CONSTRUCT 124 CONF-2       FITNESS
GYM, OASIS AQUATIC CENTRE - EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 125 CONF-3       RFT2022-04
CONCRETE CRUSHING SERVICES 126 CONF-4       Proposed
Acquisition of Land - Part 6318 Olympic Highway, Uranquinty, being part Lot 1
DP 1068577 127 CONF-5       Proposed
Acquisition of Land - Cnr Pine Gully Road and Old Narrandera Road,
Gobbagombalin, being Part Lot 450 DP 1271227 128 CONF-6       Proposed
Grazing Licence - Little Burrundana, 43 Livingstone State Forrest Road - Part
Lot 1 DP 803622 129 CONF-7       INDOOR
RECREATION FACILITY, BOLTON PARK STADIUM - EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 130 CONF-8       CONTAINER
DEPOSIT SCHEME (CDS) - REFUND SHARING ARRANGEMENT 131 PRAYER Almighty God, Help protect our Mayor, elected Councillors and staff. Help Councillors to govern with justice, integrity, and
respect for equality, to preserve rights and liberties, to be guided by wisdom
when making decisions and settling priorities, and not least of all to preserve
harmony. Amen. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF
COUNTRY Wagga Wagga City
Council acknowledges the traditional custodians of the land, the Wiradjuri
people, and pays respect to Elders past, present and future and extends our
respect to all First Nations Peoples in Wagga Wagga. We recognise and respect their cultural
heritage, beliefs and continuing connection with the land and rivers. We also
recognise the resilience, strength and pride of the Wiradjuri and First Nations
communities APOLOGIES Confirmation
of Minutes CM-1 Ordinary Council Meeting - 11
October 2021 Recommendation That the
  Minutes of the proceedings of the Ordinary Council Meeting held on 11 October
  2021 be confirmed as a true and accurate record. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Minutes - 11 October 2021 132 DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 CR-1 Councillor
Report CR-1 Councillor
Report - Developers in Local Government Author: Councillor
Tim Koschel Recommendation That
  Council: a       takes
  a stance as community leaders, that developers or close associates
  shouldn’t stand as Councillors in the upcoming election b       shares
  publicly this decision through a media campaign including but not limited to
  social media and print media c        writes
  a letter to the Minister and Shadow Minister of local government in support
  of banning Developers and close associates running in the local government
  elections Report Summary Our Local
community is raising more and more concerns around transparency of councillors
and the need that developers or close associates shouldn’t be involved in
local Government. Report There has been
a growing concern from our community in regard to developers or close
associates being involved in local government as Councillors. While these
Councillors bring a wealth of knowledge to the table and openly share their
experiences and knowledge, the community believes it’s not in the best
interest of the community for them to hold office. The relationships that
developers and close associates can have add extra pressure to Councillors when
making decision on planning applications in the chamber. Councillors do have
the option to declare a pecuniary interest and leave the chamber but is this
the best thing for our community to have multiple councillors out of the
chamber when making important planning decisions. Councillors even if they declare
a pecuniary interest still have access to all reports and information which
could be used to gain inside information for their own developments. Wagga Wagga
City Council needs to take the lead along with other councils around NSW to
take a stand for more independent representation in local government. Other
Councillors personally around NSW have spoken on this issue: Keith Williams,
Ballina Shire Councillor ‘while there are procedures in place to manage
day to day conflicts of interest in local government, there are some that just
can’t be managed. Councillors will have access to privileged information
that could confer a commercial advantage.’ Ms Cook,
Lismore’s Deputy Mayor ‘I think real estate agents and
developers should be excluded from local government councils because of the
obvious conflict between their professional and Councillor interests. If they
were honest then they would have to leave the chamber for discussions on every
development application, every rezoning application, every acquisition of
lands, or changes to the DCP or LEP that came before council,’ Tweed Mayor
Milne ‘There is undoubtably a conflict of interest for developers and
real estate agents with so much money involved in the property
industry,’ ‘Governments
at all levels must become squeaky clean to regain the trust of their
communities so this really is no brainer.’ *  Source 
https://www.echo.net.au/2020/03/should-developers-be-banned-from-becoming-a-councillor/ Wagga Wagga
City Council as a regional capital needs to become fully transparent and take
the lead in NSW and a stance that developers or close associates
shouldn’t be involved in local
government. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation N/A Link to Strategic Plan Community Leadership
and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation N/A Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-1 Reports
from Staff RP-1 PLANNING
PROPOSALS - LEP18/0004 AND LEP18/0009 - GREGADOO ROAD AND TALLOWOOD CRESCENT -
AMENDMENT TO LAND ZONING AND MINIMUM LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS OF THE WAGGA WAGGA
LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN 2010 AND AMENDMENT TO WAGGA WAGGA DEVELOPMENT CONTROL
PLAN 2010 Author: Crystal
Atkinson Director: Michael
Keys Summary: On 8 July
  2019, Council resolved to support the planning proposals LEP18/0004 and
  LEP18/0009. The planning
  proposals sought to rezone land from RU1 Primary Production to R5 Large Lot
  Residential and reduce the minimum lot size applicable from 2ha down to
  4,000m 2 for land on Gregadoo Road and Tallowood Crescent, Wagga
  Wagga. The planning
  proposals and associated amendment to the Wagga Wagga Development Control
  Plan 2010 were placed on public exhibition from 27 February to 11 April 2021
  (inclusive) and a post exhibition report was tabled for the 10 May 2021
  Council meeting. During this process, Council staff were informed that
  consultation notifications were not received by all affected landowners and
  the decision was made to defer consideration of the amendments until further
  consultation was undertaken. Further
  exhibition occurred between 15 May and 3 October 2021 (inclusive) with
  additional time added to the exhibition period to seek additional information
  for the community. This report
  provides feedback on the public consultation and submissions received. The report
  recommends adoption and gazettal of the amendment to the Wagga Wagga Local
  Environmental Plan 2010 and adoption of the subsequent amendment to the Wagga
  Wagga Development Control Plan 2010. Recommendation That
  Council: a       note
  the results of the exhibition period for planning proposals LEP18/0004 and
  LEP18/0009 b       support
  planning proposals LEP18/0004 and LEP18/0009 to amend the Wagga Wagga Local Environmental
  Plan 2010 c        not
  support the extension of Tallowood Crescent to any future road and reflect
  this is the amendment to the Wagga Wagga Development Control Plan 2010 as
  identified in (f) below d       request
  the NSW Department of Planning, Industry and Environment to prepare the
  amending instrument e       gazette
  the plan and notify landowners and the NSW Department of Planning, Industry
  and Environment f        adopt
  the amendments to the Wagga Wagga Development Control Plan 2010 with the
  recommended amendments identified in the report and provide notification of
  the adoption in the local paper Application details Submitted
  proposals: LEP18/0004 – seeks to reduce the minimum lot size of 52 and 56 Gregadoo Road
  from 2ha to 3,000m 2 (Attachment 1). LEP18/0009 – seeks to rezone 13 and 15 Tallowood Crescent, Lake Albert from
  RU1 Primary Production Zone to R5 Large Lot Residential Zone. This proposal
  also seeks to reduce the minimum lot size requirement applicable to several
  lots to the south of Gregadoo Road from 2ha to 1800m 2 , 3,500m 2 and 5,500m 2 (Attachment 2). In
  consideration of the proposals received, an addendum (Attachment 3) was
  prepared with a recommendation to amend the minimum lot size to 4,000m². Applicant: LEP18/0004
  – Kerry and Cynthia Podmore (owner of 56 Gregadoo Road). Salvestro
  Planning has been appointed by the applicant to prepare the planning
  proposal. LEP18/0009
  - Stephen Jay (owner of 68 Gregadoo Road, Lake Albert). MJM Consulting has
  been appointed by the applicant to prepare the planning proposal. Landowners: Various
  landowners provided under separate confidential cover. Proposal Council is in
receipt of two planning proposals to amend the Wagga Wagga Local Environmental
Plan 2010 (LEP) to the south of Gregadoo Road. Details of the proposals with
supporting information are attached. An assessment
of the applications concluded that the planning proposals may proceed as a
combined proposal and that a minimum lot size of 4000m 2 be applied
across the precinct. The revised proposal seeks the following: 1.    Rezone
11, 13 and 15 Tallowood Crescent, Lake Albert (Lot 1 DP 882899, Lot 2 DP 882889
and Lot 2 DP 1013227) from RU1 Primary Production Zone to R5 Large Lot
Residential Zone as per the illustration below Figure 1 – Proposed Land Zoning
Changes 2.    Reduce
the minimum lot size requirement applicable to Lots 48, 50, 52, 56, 58, 60, 62,
64, 66, 68 and 70 Gregadoo Road, 1- 7 Cottonwood Close 1 – 6, 7, 9, 11,
13, 15 Tallowood Crescent (Lot 1 DP 514671, Lot 3 DP 233523, Lot 4 and Lot 5 DP
233523, Lot 1 and Lot 2 DP 715658, Lot 5 DP 775412, Lot 8 DP 859533, Lot 7 DP
775412, Lot 15 DP 866164, Lot 2 DP 539369, Lot 3 DP 540483, Lot 9 - 13 DP
886164, Lot 1 DP 1013227, Lot 2 DP 1013227, Lot 1 and Lot 2 DP 882899, Lot 1 to
Lot 8 DP 866164) from 2ha to 4000m 2 as per the illustration below. Figure 2 – Proposed Minimum Lot
Size Changes The amendment
will provide the opportunity for landowners in the precinct to subdivide their
land in the future. It will create the opportunity for approximately 130
additional lots in the precinct. Development Control Plan As a result of
the outcomes sought by the planning proposal, a subsequent amendment is also
proposed to the Wagga Wagga Development Control Plan 2010. This will ensure
that the precinct is developed in a coordinated manner and that new development
integrates with its surround. More
specifically, the DCP requires the preparation of a staging plan, stormwater
management plan, traffic impact assessment and the creation of buffer areas to
adjoining rural zoned land to the south. In response to
feedback received during consultation, further amendments are recommended to
the DCP as per the summary table included under Internal / External Consultation
below. The DCP amendment proposed for adoption is provided as Attachment 4. The DCP
amendment outlines the expectations of future development and provides
certainty to both the developer and landowners on what is required at
development application stage. In response to
feedback received, the DCP amendment has been updated to reflect the desire for
Tallowood Crescent to remain a closed street. Concept Layout As part of the
planning proposal, the proponent has provided a concept layout (Figure 3). The
concept layout was requested by Council and provided for the purposes of
determining whether there are suitable options for servicing the proposed
development and to indicate potential development outcomes. The concept
layout identifies potential development and staging if all landowners were to
participate. This is not reliant on all landowners but indicates how staging
could occur to facilitate servicing and infrastructure. The layout can
change at development application stage, this planning proposal process sets
provisions in the LEP and DCP to guide development. Each development
application will need to address all infrastructure requirements in detail reflective
of the layout provided in the specific development application. Figure 3 – Concept
Layout Site and Locality The precinct is
located on the south of Gregadoo Road and is partly located within the R5 Large
Lot Residential Zone and in the RU1 Primary Production Zone as shown in Figure
1. A minimum lot size requirement of 2 hectares currently applies under Clause
4.1 of the Wagga Wagga Local Environmental Plan 2010 to lots within the
precinct. Lots to the
north of the precinct (north of Gregadoo Road) are in the R5 Large Lot
Residential Zone and vary between approximately 1500m 2 and 4300m 2 in size. The Grange Lifestyle Village is located to the west. The land to the
south is in the RU1- Primary Production Zone and land to the east is also zoned
R5 Large Lot Residential. Gateway Determination The NSW Department of Planning, Industry and Environment
issued a Gateway Determination for the planning proposal on 30 September 2019
and a subsequent alteration was issued on 1 March 2021 subject to public
exhibition. A copy of the Gateway Determination and alteration is provided as
Attachment 5. Preliminary Consultation / Public
Exhibition Three stages of consultation / public
exhibition have been undertaken for this proposal since September 2018. Preliminary Consultation: Consultation with affected landowners was
undertaken between 21 September 2018 and 19 October 2018 to seek feedback prior
to finalising consideration of the applications received and reporting to
Council. During the preliminary consultation 13
responses were received with 11 being objections and 2 providing support for
smaller lot sizes. Submissions received during the preliminary consultation are
provided as Attachment 6. From this preliminary consultation, a
report was tabled for the 8 July 2019 Ordinary Meeting of Council recommending
a combined planning proposal to change land zoning from RU1 Primary Production
to R5 Large Lot Residential and the minimum lot size from 2 hectares to 4,000m²
be supported and submitted to NSW Department of Planning, Industry and
Environment for Gateway Determination. Initial Public Exhibition: An initial public exhibition was held from
27 February to 11 April 2021 (inclusive). During this exhibition period, one
(1) submission was received objecting to the proposed changes (Attachment 7). A report was tabled for the 10 May 2021
Ordinary Meeting of Council and at this point, Council staff were notified that
not all affected landowners received notification of the exhibition and
proposed amendments for this exhibition period. In response, consideration of
the planning proposal was deferred to enable further consultation. Final Public Exhibition: A further public exhibition period was
undertaken between 15 May and 3 October 2021 (inclusive) with additional time
added to the exhibition period to provide adequate time for participation and
engagement. In response to
initial feedback received during the final exhibition, additional information
was sought from the proponent regarding infrastructure servicing. In response,
the proponent provided a set of servicing plans that identified staging, road
hierarchy, drainage, sewer, gas, water, and electricity. The plans are provided
as Attachment 8. During the
final exhibition period 37 submissions were received (provided as Attachment
9). A submission summary table with a response is provided as Attachment 10. The major
topics and concerns with options, discussion, and recommendation is provided
under Internal / External Consultation section below. Community
Workshops: During the
final exhibition period, five (5) Community Workshops were held, both online
and in person. Workshop summaries are provided as Attachment 11. The workshops
were generally well supported and provided an opportunity for anyone interested
in the proposals to attend and learn more about their issues and concerns. Financial
Implications Application
EP18/0004 was submitted in the 2017/18 financial year and attracted an application
fee of $7,500 and application LEP18/0009 was submitted in the 2018/19 financial
year and attracted an application fee of $15,000 in accordance with
Council’s Fees and Charges applicable at the time of application. Policy
and Legislation Environmental Planning and Assessment Act
1979 Wagga Wagga Local Environmental Plan 2010 Link to
Strategic Plan The Environment Objective: We plan for the growth of the
city Outcome: We have sustainable urban
development Risk
Management Issues for Council Changes to
planning provisions present risk issues for Council, including impacts of
development on the environment, community, and infrastructure. The potential
impacts from this development across these issues has been considered and
addressed. The planning
proposal process requires consultation and engagement with affected landowners
and the wider community. This has been undertaken in accordance with
Council’s local provisions, regulations, and the directions from DPiE in
the Gateway Determination. Feedback from the community raising concerns with
earlier consultation resulted in an additional and extended period of community
consultation. This has provided an opportunity for interested and affected
residents and community members to make submissions and seek further
information on the proposal. Internal
/ External Consultation The planning
proposal has been subject to three forms of consultation. The final
consultation period occurred between 15 May and 3 October 2021 (inclusive) with
additional time added to the exhibition period to seek additional information
for the community and provide adequate time for participation and engagement. An engagement
page was established at https://connect.wagga.nsw.gov.au/lep18-0004 .
The engagement page attracted the following traffic: A total of 30
documents were made available on the engagement page that attracted a
collective of 591 downloads. The final
exhibition period attracted 37 submissions.  Copies of the submission are
provided with this report and included as Attachment 9. In addition, a table
summary of key issues raised in the individual submissions and a planning
response is provided in Attachment 10. To assist
Councillor appreciation of key issues and concerns the following table is
provided. This table outlines the major topics and concerns with options,
discussion, and recommendations provided. Tallowood Crescent Comments / issues § Want no change to Tallowood
  Crescent. § No road link or pedestrian link
  to be provided at the end of Tallowood Crescent. § As a compromise, preference to
  have Tallowood Crescent closed off to all vehicle traffic with a public
  reserve walking access only between the two areas. § Increased traffic on Tallowood
  Crescent is a concern. Options: 1.    Note
  the comments and do nothing. 2.    Completely
  remove Tallowood Crescent and Cottonwood Close properties from the planning
  proposal. 3.    Make
  changes to the proposed DCP amendment to ensure Tallowood Crescent remains a
  closed road with a pedestrian access provided that also provides
  infrastructure connectivity. 4.    Make
  changes to the proposed DCP amendment to ensure Tallowood Crescent remains a
  closed road with no pedestrian access. 5.    Make
  changes to the proposed DCP amendment to ensure Tallowood Crescent remains a
  closed road with future development to consider merits of a pedestrian access
  or infrastructure easement connection in consultation with Riverina Water
  County Council and Wagga Wagga City Council to ensure infrastructure
  servicing requirements can be addressed. Discussion / Recommendation: Most residents in Tallowood
  Crescent have raised concerns with Tallowood Crescent being a through road.
  Council staff have assessed the road network and Tallowood Crescent is not
  required to be a through road for the purposes of potential future
  development. Removal of Tallowood Crescent and
  Cottonwood Close from the planning proposal is not the preferred approach as
  consideration of planning at the precinct scale is a key outcome identified
  in our Local Strategic Planning Statement. In addition, there are a number of
  existing properties in Tallowood Crescent and Cottonwood Close that are less
  than 1-hectare in size significantly lower than the existing minimum lot size
  of 2-hectares. It is recommended to implement
  Option 5 above to ensure full consideration can be given to a pedestrian /
  infrastructure easement option. Consultation / Exhibition Material Comments / issues § Consultation with the community
  and the available information has been inconsistent and ad hoc. § The information made available
  about the proposed changes on the Connect Wagga page is incomplete and does
  not provide all the required information. Discussion / Recommendation: In response to this feedback in May
  2021, the exhibition period was extended to obtain additional information and
  make all relevant exhibition material available. Additional documents were made
  available on the website in June 2021 and additional servicing /
  infrastructure information provided in September 2021 with a new exhibition
  close date set for 3 October 2021. No recommendations are made in
  response to these comments. Minimum Lot Size Comments / issues § The changes to the minimum lot
  size would change the pattern from a mixed lot residential area to a uniform 4,000m². § The change does not take into
  consideration the diversity of lifestyle that should be provided in a large
  lot residential community. § Preference for no further
  subdivision in the area. § Bought block believing
  subdivision was finished. § Do not intend to subdivide. Options: 1.    Remove
  properties who do not wish to subdivide from the planning proposal and retain
  a 2ha minimum lot size on these properties. 2.    Retain
  the precinct approach to changing the minimum lot size. Discussion / Recommendation: Changes to the minimum lot size
  provisions will acknowledge that there are existing lots below 1-hectare and
  down to approximately 4,000m² in size as well as provide opportunities
  for further subdivision. The change will not force landowners to subdivide to
  this size, however, will ensure a consistent approach to planning,
  particularly for infrastructure provision to ensure development and
  infrastructure upgrades / provision is not occurring in an ad hoc manner. The recommendation is to implement
  Option 2. Amenity / Character: Comments / issues § Have concerns for the quality of
  life and streetscape. § Want diversity in subdivisions. § The lot size proposed does not
  take into consideration the diversity of lifestyle that should be provided in
  large lot residential communities. § The proposal will change the
  quiet area to a busy and densely populated one, impacting on rural outlook. Discussion / Recommendation: The lot size proposed is large
  enough to retain and reflect the existing rural residential character in this
  locality. The Wagga Wagga Development Control
  Plan provides development controls for new developments that facilitate
  retention of the rural residential character in these locations. No recommendations are made in response
  to these comments. Infrastructure / Servicing Comments / issues § Concerns for the basic
  infrastructure and changes to traffic. § Services and amenities all need
  upgrading for existing residents. § The proposal does not account for
  increased load on existing infrastructure. Discussion / Recommendation: The site has access to basic
  infrastructure and demonstrates options for connection to and management of
  infrastructure provision for potential future development. Full details of
  infrastructure upgrades will be identified when development outcomes are known
  and submitted as part of a development application. No recommendations are made in
  response to these comments. Gregadoo Road Upgrade Comments / issues § No development to commence before
  the Gregadoo Road upgrade occurs. § Gregadoo Road is not ready for
  the increase in housing. § An exit directly onto Plumpton
  Road would alleviate some of the additional congestion on Gregadoo Road. Options: 1.    Note
  the comments. 2.    Require
  changes to the DCP that require the upgrades to Gregadoo Road to be completed
  prior to development. 3.    Enable
  development to proceed relying on the DA process to condition works that
  contribute to or directly impact on the upgrade of Gregadoo Road. Discussion / Recommendation: Gregadoo Road was originally
  designed to cater for the development potential at the time. Over time,
  development has occurred adding additional demand requiring Council to
  consider the existing road network, development potential and any required
  upgrades. The upgrades are being planned to meet the long-term needs taking
  into account Council’s strategy for growth. The upgrades are being designed in
  response to traffic demand and service levels. If development occurs prior to
  the upgrade, the development can be conditioned to complete some of the
  upgrade works. Development in this area Is
  required to enable a future connection point south of the proposal area to
  facilitate future development and connectivity to Plumpton Road further
  south. As development will be staged, a
  suitable option is to require the developer to complete relevant upgrade
  works as part of the DA process if required. It is recommended to implement
  Option 3. Trees Comments / issues § If subdivision occurs in
  Tallowood Crescent, driveway spacing should only be allowed between the
  current trees, no trees to be removed. § Tallowood Crescent is
  renowned for its beauty with visitors taking photos of the avenue trees. § Council should have a
  policy against removal of trees. Discussion / Recommendation: Vegetation is protected when it is
  a native species. If tree removal is proposed as part of future development,
  this will need to be taken into consideration and further street tree
  planting undertaken as required. The street trees in Tallowood
  Crescent and Cottonwood Close are part of the local character of this area
  and any impacts on that character must be accounted for and taken into
  consideration in any future development application. No recommendations are made in
  response to these comments. Stormwater Comments / issues § Calculations are incorrect
  and based on assumptions. § Stormwater drainage is
  non-existent with flooding of the roads occurring. § Swale drains do not exist
  and water off the nature strip and road flows towards house foundations. § Consideration should be
  given to piped stormwater. Open drains are an eyesore and costly for Council
  to maintain. § Pipe stormwater to the Lake
  to help with the health and condition of the Lake. Options: 1.     Remodelling
  and review is undertaken at subdivision development application stage to
  ensure development does not impact adjoining properties. Discussion / Recommendation: Stormwater calculations are based
  on average runoff rates based on stormwater modelling standards and are in
  accordance with the size and form of development proposed. Calculations will
  be remodelled and reviewed at subdivision development application stage. The DCP requires that new
  developments will need to provide further evidence and model stormwater flow
  which includes existing flow and manage as part of any new development
  proposal. New development will need to demonstrate and confirm they are not
  impacting on adjoining properties. It is recommended to implement
  Option 1. Water Comments / issues § Riverina Water County
  Council have advised they have capacity in the existing network to service
  the potential increase in density, however, current water pressure is low. Options: 1.     Make
  changes to the proposed DCP amendment to ensure Tallowood Crescent remains a
  closed road with future development to consider merits of a pedestrian access
  or infrastructure easement connection in consultation with Riverina Water
  County Council and Wagga Wagga City Council to ensure infrastructure
  servicing requirements can be addressed. Discussion / Recommendation: Extension of the existing water
  main, whilst not guaranteed, may improve water pressure, however some
  pressure issues may be a result of internal property connections or plumbing
  fixtures. Council will continue to liaise
  with Riverina Water County Council on the best approach. It is recommended to implement
  Option 1. Process Comments / issues § Great meeting at Lake
  Albert on 27 May 2021. § Feel like it is a money
  grab by landowners / developers. § If it goes ahead, get it
  done right the first time. § Make this proposed
  subdivision a benchmark for future subdivisions around Wagga Wagga. § Councillors were not told
  that most people (85%) in Tallowood Crescent and Cottonwood Close were not in
  favour of the development in 2018. § Thank Council staff for
  their Community Information Sessions, to be able to talk openly about our
  concerns and discuss possible scenarios to retain our lifestyle has been
  appreciated. § Not against development,
  just want it to be done with all concerns addressed. § The proposal involves land
  and we have not been spoken to by developers. § There has been a lack of
  consultation in regard to developments in the area. § Council is rushing this
  through and trying to push to a Council meeting prior to Council election
  caretaker mode commencing. Discussion / Recommendation: The full consultation outcomes have
  been identified in this report and all submissions have been attached. The current Council has been
  involved in this proposal and have awareness of the sensitivities and demand
  for this development. A report will bring the issues to a decision with
  Council having the ability to support the proposal, support with changes, or
  refuse the proposal. No recommendations are made in
  response to these comments. Rates / Property Values Comments / issues § For those not wishing to
  subdivide, what is the future of rates? Will rates be based on the number of
  blocks that could be achieved? § While developers look to
  maximise profits from rezoning into smaller lots, Council needs to take on
  board the views of existing residents who have the potential for their
  property values and amenity to be significantly reduced by such decisions. Discussion / Recommendation: Rates are determined by property
  values and where property values increase, rates can change. It is
  anticipated that property values will increase over time, the market will
  determine how this occurs on the ground. The impact on property values is
  not a planning related consideration and cannot be considered as relevant
  grounds to reuse a planning proposal. The Valuer General determines land
  value based on ‘highest and best permitted use’ and in most
  cases, this is based on current zoning and planning restrictions. Land value
  is on land only and not the value of structures on the land. No recommendations are made in response
  to these comments. Open Space Comments / issues § Want to see planning have
  more areas set aside for park and leisure areas. Discussion / Recommendation: Council’s Open Space Strategy
  seeks to ensure there is well located, useable, accessible, and connected
  open space opportunities available to the whole community. The proposed site
  does not trigger the need for local open space. The open space provision in the
  Lake Albert Catchment is sufficient and accessible for the proposed
  development. No recommendations are made in
  response to these comments. Support Comments / issues § Love Lake Albert and would
  like to build there but there is a lack of suitable land. § The civil infrastructure
  and community services and parks are all at your fingertips. § As a long-term resident of
  Lake Albert, support the proposal. § Our home and most of the
  street is around 4,000m², this size is most appropriate for residents
  seeking space and privacy without the responsibility of maintaining unused or
  not required land. § Growing the number of
  available blocks of land south of Lake Albert will provide opportunities for
  an increased number of families to live in a very desirable part of the city. Discussion / Recommendation: The support is noted. Councillor
Workshop: A Councillor
workshop on the planning proposals was held on 18 October 202. At the Workshop,
Councillors were provided with a copy of all submissions received during the
final exhibition period and the summary of key issues raised, discussions, and
recommendations as per above table. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news story Council News advert Media releases TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult x x x x x x x x Attachments 1 . LEP18/0004 - Application to amend Wagga Wagga Local Environmental
  Plan 2010 - Provided under separate cover 2 . LEP18/0009 - Application to amend Wagga Wagga Local
  Environmental Plan 2010 - Provided under separate cover 3 . LEP18/0004 and LEP18/0009 - Addendum to Planning
  Proposal - Provided under separate cover 4 . Amendment to Development Control Plan 2010 - Provided
  under separate cover 5 . Gateway Determination & Alteration - Provided under
  separate cover 6 . Preliminary Consultation Submissions - Provided under
  separate cover 7 . Initial Consultation Submissions - Provided under
  separate cover 8 . Additional Information - Servicing Plans - Provided
  under separate cover 9 . Final Consultation Submissions - Provided under separate
  cover 10 . Final Consultation Submission Summary and Response -
  Provided under separate cover 11 . Community Workshop Summaries - Provided under separate
  cover 12 . Landowners This matter is considered to be confidential under
  Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act 1993, as it deals with: personnel
  matters concerning particular individuals. - Provided under separate
  cover Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-2 RP-2 LIVESTOCK MARKETING CENTRE - Supply
and installtion of shade sails over sheep delivery yards Author: Darryl
Woods Director: Michael Keys Summary: The sheep
  yard expansion project was completed last financial year. Incorporated in the
  expansion was retractable shade structures with the intent to install the
  shade sails over the remaining sheep yard delivery pens. This report
  seeks Council’s approval for a budget variation funded from the
  Livestock Marketing Centre (LMC) reserve and authorisation for the General
  Manager to enter into a contract once the proposed works are tendered and
  assessed. Recommendation That
  Council: a       approve
  the budget variation listed in the Financial Implications Section to be
  funded from the Livestock Marketing Centre reserve b       call
  a tender for the supply and installation of shade sails over the remaining
  sheep yard delivery pens c        if
  the tendered price is under the budget variation requested in (a) above and
  meets the project requirements authorise the General Manager or their
  delegate to enter into a contract with the successful tenderer. d       authorise
  the affixing of Council’s Common Seal to all relevant documents as
  required Report The Wagga
Livestock Marketing Centre Strategic Masterplan developed in 2015 outlined the
continued operation and development of NSW’s premier livestock saleyard
to 2035. Last financial
year the sheep yards were expanded, and as part of the upgrade, retractable
shade sails were installed in the delivery pens of the new yards to then review
the performance of the sails on operations and animal welfare with the
intention to further expand shade structures to the existing yards if the
initial installations were successful. There were two
main issues affecting the potential performance the first being shading of
lights during night unloading and drafting of sheep maintaining a safe working
environment for agents and staff, as most of the delivery occurs though the
night leading up to the Thursday sheep sale. The second area of review was if
the shade sails allowed for sufficient sunlight to provide necessary
ultra-violet disinfection towards maintaining a healthy environment and drying
of the surface. The shade sails
in the deployed position have not had an adverse effect on either the lighting
of the facility or the sunlight and drying of the surfaces.  The proposal
to install the shade sails into the remaining yards is to have fixed sails that
are not retractable.  The sails are attached to wire rope centenary with
clips and can be unclipped and removed for cleaning, and, or replacement
relatively quickly. Financial Implications Budget Costs Estimated
  Value of Construction Works $635,799 Project
  Management $25,000 Contingency
  (10%) $63,000 Total
  Project Budget Required $723,799 The project
will be completed during this financial year. It is proposed to fund the total
required budget from the Livestock Marketing Centre Reserve, which has current
capacity. Policy and Legislation N/A Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: City of Wagga
Wagga services reflect the needs of the community Outcome: The City of Wagga
Wagga has efficient and effective processes Risk Management Issues for
Council Solution
provides a better environmental and safety outcome for delivery and management
of sheep. Internal / External
Consultation Livestock
Marketing Centre – Agents Association Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-3 RP-3 Wagga Wagga Major Overland Flow Floodplain
Study (MOFFS) & The Tarcutta, Ladysmith and Uranquinty Floodplain Study
(VOFFS) Author: Andrew
Mason Director: Warren
Faulkner Summary: This report recommends that Council receive
  and adopt the Wagga Wagga Major Overland Flow Floodplain Risk Management
  Study and Plan (MOFFS) completed by WMAWater and the Village Floodplain Risk
  Management Studies and Plans (VOFFS) completed by GRC Hydro and receive a
  further report in the future outlining an implementation plan for
  recommendations and outcomes reached in the studies and plans. Recommendation That
  Council: a       receive
  and adopt the Wagga Wagga Major Overland Flow Floodplain Risk Management
  Study and Plan b       receive
  and adopt the Tarcutta, Ladysmith and Uranquinty Floodplain Risk Management
  Studies and Plans c        receive
  a further report by 31 March 2022 outlining a plan for the implementation of
  the recommendations and options in the studies and plans Report At its 22 March 2021 meeting, Council resolved
to place the Wagga Wagga Major Overland Flow Floodplain Risk Management Study
(MOFFS) and Plan and Village Overland Flow Floodplain Risk Management Studies
(VOFFS) and Plans for the villages of Tarcutta, Ladysmith and Uranquinty on
public exhibition and to receive a further report following the public
exhibition and submission period: i.    addressing any submission made in
respect of the proposed reports ii.   proposing adoption of the reports unless
there are any recommended amendments deemed to be substantial and required a
further public exhibition period The plans were placed on public exhibition for
35 days from 1 April 2021 to 5 May 2021.  No extensions of time were
requested. This report summarises feedback from the public exhibition period, the
main recommendations of each report and is intended to brief and inform the
Council to enable it to adopt the Studies and Plans as recommended by the
Floodplain Risk Management Advisory Committee. It should be remembered these studies comprise
stages 3 to 4 in a five-stage process as outlined in the NSW Government’s
Floodplain Development Manual (FDM, 2005) (DIPNR, 2007) shown following: The following
engagement activities were used during the exhibition period: · Information in Council
News, on the Council Website and to media outlets · Public notices including
notification of the information sessions · A website with an
overview of the study and plan, as well as a link to the draft report and a
feedback form, and booking system for the information sessions; and · Individual meetings with
the consultant to allow residents to discuss their specific issues and
concerns, and · Information sessions on
20th and 21st of April 2021, consisting of a group meeting in Uranquinty and a
series of one-on-one meetings with interested residents in each town. Summary of MOFFS submissions received A total of eight submissions were received for the MOFFS, all of which
were read and logged by Council and WMAwater. Feedback supported the findings of the study and was mainly centred
around emphasising specific issues that community members believed should be
prioritised. Six of the submissions were about the recommendations in the report. The
submissions were supportive of the recommendations and asked to reinforce that
extensive consultation and community awareness were an integral part of the
process going forward. Three of the submissions were about the modelling undertaken for the
report. The submissions were questioning the relevance and appropriateness of
the data, these submissions have been responded to by the consultant. Four of the submissions related to development and the lack of foresight
and planning for downstream properties. WMA Water has responded to these queries and highlighted either
recommendations from this report proposed for implementation moving forward or
existing Council planning controls that will assist to resolve these issues. There were three submissions received that were issues related to
hotspots and stormwater management. These issues were outside of the scope of
the plans and will be investigated as localised matters rather than as part of
a catchment wide investigation such as this study. As there were no significant issues raised during public
exhibition period requiring substantial changes to the document, WMAwater made
minor amendments made to the final documents incorporating the contributions as
a result of the public exhibition period and submitted the final project documents
for the review and consideration of the Floodplain Risk Management Committee at
their meeting on the 6 July 2021. The FRMAC recommended that
the final MOFFS project documents be submitted to Council for adoption as
recorded in the minutes of the Committee Meeting reported to Council at its 9
August 2021 meeting. The final
MOFFS project documents are attached for the information of the Council Summary
of VOFFS submissions received Feedback supported the findings of the
studies and was mainly centred around emphasising specific issues that
community members believed should be prioritised. Tarcutta: The nine questionnaire
responses from Tarcutta indicate residents’ favour structural works for
flood mitigation. Five responses supported use of levee repair/increases and
modifying sections of creek channel, while seven favoured improved overland
flow paths. Responses proposed a number of measures for further investigation,
including improved conveyance under Tarcutta Creek Bridge, raising the levee
and improvement/maintenance of drainage paths within the town. These measures
will be tabulated along with the options outlined in the flood study for
discussion with Council. Support for non-structural measures was relatively
low, with two favouring planning controls, two awareness and education and two
emergency response improvements. No particular measures were proposed in regard
to planning controls. Ladysmith: The seven questionnaire
responses from Ladysmith indicate residents, on average, do not strongly favour
particular types of mitigation option. The highest support by residents was for
improved overland flow paths (4 responses) which corresponded with issues
described (almost all responses pertained to local overland flooding). Specific
measures proposed included addressing a build-up of soil on Mona Vale Road, and
better real-time monitoring of flood events. These measures will be tabulated
along with the options outlined in the flood study for discussion with Council. Uranquinty: Uranquinty had the
highest number of responses of the three towns and there was a high level of
engagement with a range of types of mitigation measure. From the 29 responses,
there was very high support for three types of structural option (overland flow
paths, levees, and modifying creek channels) with approximately 80% support for
each. Many potential measures were discussed related to levee improvements,
drainage upgrades and the effect of recent development in the town. There was
lower support for planning controls (14%), flood awareness and education (21%)
and emergency response improvements (17%). All of the proposed measures will be
tabulated along with the options outlined in the flood study for discussion
with Council. As there
were no significant issues raised during public exhibition period requiring
substantial changes to the document, GRC Hydro made minor amendments made to
the final documents incorporating the contributions as a result of the public
exhibition period and submitted the final project documents for the review and
consideration of the Floodplain Risk Management Committee at their meeting on
the 6 th July 2021.  The FRMAC recommended that the final VOFFS
project documents be submitted to Council for adoption as recorded in the
minutes of the Committee Meeting reported to Council at its 9 August 2021
meeting. The final
VOFFS project documents are attached for the information of the Council. Summary
of MOFFS Flood Risk Mitigation Measures The high priority recommendations from the
MOFFS report for implementation are: · Amend Flood Plans to include Overland Flow Flood
Information · Improve Community Flood Awareness · Adoption of Overland Flow Flood Planning Area · Adoption of Overland Flow Flood Planning Level · Appropriate Land Use Zoning in Future Development Areas · Appropriate Management of areas subject to both riverine
and overland flow flood risk. · Confirm suitability of riverine flood related development
controls within the overland flow PMF extent. · Inclusion of Overland Flow flood information on Section
10.7 Planning Certificates · Glenfield Drain and Flowerdale Lagoon improvements (further
investigation) · Incarnie Crescent stormwater line. · Lake Albert Flood Mitigation improvements (further
investigation) Summary
of VOFFS Flood Risk Mitigation Measures The high priority recommendations from the
VOFFS report for implementation are: · Flood Planning Area and Level for each town · Update the Wagga Wagga Local Flood Plan section for each
town · Update Flood Intelligence Cards for each town. · Install an automatic water level recorder on Umbango Creek · Improve Community Flood Awareness · Maintenance for Levee Cross-drainage for Tarcutta · Uranquinty Levee System Upgrade · Maintenance for Levee Cross-Drainage for Uranquinty · Sandy Creek Regular Clearing of Sedimentation Council officers have applied for funding via
the 2021/22 Floodplain Management program to undertake feasibility studies for
three projects as follows: · Lake Albert Enhanced Flow Scheme & Flood Mitigation
works – Options LA01, LA02, LA03. · Glenfield Drain and Flowerdale Lagoon improvements -
Options GD01, GD02, GD03, GD05. · Uranquinty Levee System Upgrade – Option UL01 It is expected the outcome of this grant
application will be known in December 2021 Financial Implications The risk management studies and plans recommend
response, property and flood modification measures that will require funding to
implement. Indicative costs for each recommendation are provided in the
attached plans.  Grant funding is available to assist with implementation
of the plans and has been applied for in the 2021/22 round as outlined above. The last stage of the flood planning process is the
implementation plan.  It is being recommended that the implementation plan
be developed over the next six months and be brought back to Council for
endorsement. The MOFFS and VOFFS project budgets, expenditure and
commitments to date are as follows: Project
  name Total
  Project Budget Expended
  + Committed as at 20
  September 2021 Budget
  Remaining/ (overspend) Wagga Wagga Major Overland Flow
  Flood (MOFF) Risk Management Study and Plan FM-0099 - (17826) $228,940 $234,603 ($5,663) Villages Floodplain Risk
  Management Study and Plan FM-115 - (18640) $198,000 $161,451 $36,549 Policy and Legislation NSW Flood Prone
Land Policy NSW Floodplain
Development Manual: the management of flood liable land  April 2005 Link to Strategic Plan Community Leadership and
Collaboration Objective: We have strong leadership Outcome: We plan long term Risk Management Issues for
Council The completion of these studies and plans assists
Council in identifying flood liable land that can then be better managed to
minimise risk via planning controls, infrastructure works and management
plans. The implementation of the recommendations and actions
in the studies and plans is the next stage of the overland flow management
process that will be developed over the next six months. Internal / External
Consultation A Councillor
workshop was held on 7 June 2021. The final
documents have been the subject of internal consultation and have been endorsed
by the Floodplain Risk Management Committee at its meeting on 8 July 2021. External
consultation methods were undertaken for 35 days as indicated in the table
below. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news story Council News advert Media releases TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community
  meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult x x x x x x Involve x x Collaborate x x Attachments 1 . MOFFS - Final Report 2021 - Provided under separate
  cover 2 . MOFFS - Final Figures 2021 - Provided under separate
  cover 3 . VOFFS - Final Report 2021 - Provided under separate
  cover 4 . VOFFS - Appendix A - Provided under separate cover 5 . VOFFS - Appendix B - Provided under separate cover 6 . VOFFS - Appendix C - Provided under separate cover Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-4 RP-4 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2020/21 Author: Carolyn
Rodney General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: The 2020/21
  Financial Statements have been completed by Council staff and have recently
  been audited by the NSW Audit Office. Recommendation That Council: a       note
  the comments from the Audit, Risk & Improvement Committee Chairperson and
  the recommendation to Council from the Committee regarding the 2020/21
  Financial Statements b       approve
  the signing of the 2020/21 Financial Statements pursuant to Section 413
  (2)(c) of the Local Government Act 1993 c        approve
  the closing balances of the Restricted Assets (Reserves) as at 30 June 2021
  as detailed in Note C1-3 – Restricted cash, cash equivalents and
  investments d       receive
  a report on the audited financial reports and auditors report at the 29
  November 2021 Council Meeting, pursuant to Section 418(1) of the Local
  Government Act 1993 and provide public notice accordingly Report The 2020/21
Annual Financial Statements have been prepared and Council’s external
auditors, NSW Audit Office have completed their audit. It is a requirement of
the Local Government Act 1993 that Council prepare a statement on the General
Purpose and Special Purpose Financial Reports prior to sign off by the auditor.
These statements must be signed by the Mayor, one Councillor, the General
Manager and the Responsible Accounting Officer. This statement
is required to be signed and included in the Financial Statements prior to the
auditor providing the final audit reports. The Financial Statements together
with the auditors’ reports must be forwarded to the Office of Local
Government by 31 October 2021. The 2020/21 financial statements were presented to the Audit,
Risk & Improvement Committee (ARIC) at its meeting on 7 October 2021. The
full report from the Chairperson was distributed in the Councillor Bulletin on
15 October 2021, with an extract applicable to this Report provided below for
Councillors’ information: Chair’s
Report on ARIC meeting of 7 October 2021 Summary of Committee Discussion This
Chair’s report identifies only the reports the Committee discussed or had
concerns about during this meeting. There were no apologies from Committee members. The
Committee commended the finance team for their efficiency in ensuring the
accounts were ready in a timely manner for the auditors. RP5
Financial Statements The NSW
Audit Office provided a report on the conduct of the audit and also provided
their closing report on their audit findings. The External
Auditor found no contentious accounting policies or any significant changes to
accounting policy during the audit, other than changes disclosed within the
financial statements. The
Committee is not aware of any material matters about Council’s financial
risks, systems of internal control or accounting policies that need to be
advised to Council members at this point of time or would prevent acceptance
and signature of the draft financial statements. Questions
from the Committee covered: · Source of
financial disclosures in particular: o Net losses from disposals of
assets o Reason for increase on cash and
cash equivalents balance o Source of high cash receipts from
“other” o Cash out flows from materials
& services o Reason for decline in revenue
from LMC o Internal restrictions · Discussed
carrying values for RRL investment · Highlighted
comparative information reported on balance sheet that appeared to require
further review/correction · Revaluations of
Infrastructure · IT General
Controls · RFS assets Relevant
section within ARIC Charter Council’s
Financial Statements are to be reviewed by the Committee prior to presentation
and sign off by Council. In relation
to this, the Committee’s role under the ARIC Charter notes that the
Committee responsibilities include: · Satisfy itself
that the annual financial reports comply with applicable Australian Accounting
Standards and are supported by appropriate management signoff on the statements
and the adequacy of internal controls · Review the
external audit opinion, including whether appropriate actions have been taken
in response to audit recommendations and adjustments · To consider
contentious financial reporting matters in conjunction with Council’s
management and external auditors · Review the
processes in place designed to ensure financial information included in the
annual report is consistent with the signed financial statements · Satisfy itself
that there are appropriate mechanisms in place to review and implement, where
appropriate, relevant State Government reports and recommendations · Satisfy itself
that there is a performance management framework linked to organisational
objectives and recommendations Marg
Nicholls PMIIA Chair,
Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Wagga Wagga
City Council During the ARIC Meeting, the Committee resolved the
following: That the Audit, Risk and Improvement
Committee: a       receive
and note presentation from Council’s auditors, the NSW Audit Office b       recommends
that Council approve the signing of the 2020/21 Financial Statements pursuant
to Section 413(2)(c) of the Local Government Act 1993 and the Local Government
Code of Accounting Practice and Financial Reporting with the proposed amendment
to the General Purpose Financial Statements Restated Balances b       commend
Council staff on the quality and timeliness of the audited papers and
additionally thank the NSW Audit Office for its continued oversight of Councils
Financial Statements 2020/21
Financial Overview The 2020/21
draft financial statements show total income from continuing operations of
$173.1M, total expenses from continuing operations of $131.6M, resulting in a
preliminary net operating surplus of $41.5M (including capital grants and
contributions). The 2019/20 financial year resulted in a net operating surplus
of $21.0M, with the increased net result for 2020/21 mainly attributable to an
increase in capital grants and contributions ($19.5M). Extract from
the draft 2020/21 Financial Statements – Income Statement: For the 2020/21
financial year, Council met the benchmark for five (5) of the six (6)
performance indicators outlined within the Financial Statements. This is
consistent with 2019/20 financial year results, with Council continuing to not
meet the Operating performance ratio benchmark of >0.00%. Below is an
extract of the performance indicators from the draft 2020/21 financial
statements. Extract from
the draft 2020/21 Financial Statements – Statement of performance
measures: At 30 June 2021, Council held $47.7M in
internal reserves, an increase of $6.1M on the previous year. The major
internally restricted reserves Council holds are: Reserve Name 30 June 2021 Balance 30 June 2020 Balance Increase/ (Decrease) from prior year* Employees Leave Entitlement $3.798M $3.781M $0.018M Civil Infrastructure $9.787M $5.911M $3.876M Grant Commission $5.382M $5.489M ($0.107M) Internal Loans $3.022M $1.672M $1.350M Livestock Marketing Centre $4.447M $5.652M ($1.205M) Unexpended External Loans $2.004M $1.284M $0.720M *Notes on Increases/(Decreases): · Civil Infrastructure Reserve – At 30 June 2021,
Council elected to combine a number of reserves together, including combining
the Civil projects and Fit for the Future reserve into the Civil Infrastructure
reserve. Also, as a result of Council having a surplus result for the financial
year, additional funds were restricted into this reserve to fund any future
projects that may arise and/or reduce future year deficit budgets. · Grant Commission Reserve – $5.382M received for a 50%
prepayment of the Financial Assistance Grant relating to the 2021/22 financial
year. This prepayment commenced in the 2016/17 financial year. · Internal Loans Reserve – Council restricted
additional funds from its 2020/21 surplus result into this reserve as a
potential funding source for any future projects, on top of the $1.3M in
repayments from previously funded projects. Council utilised this reserve to
fund the $690K Airport deficit as a result of the COVID pandemic. · Livestock Marketing Centre Reserve – Council had a
number of capital projects at this centre undertaken during 2020/21, which
meant a reduction in the closing reserve balance for the year. · Unexpended External Loans Reserve – Council
experienced delays on a number of capital projects for which external loan
borrowings were undertaken during 2020/21. These projects are scheduled for
completion in the coming years. A copy of the 2020/21 Draft Financial
Statements are attached to this report. Financial Implications Whilst this
report and associated attachments show Council’s financial performance
and position for the 2020/21 financial year, the adoption of this report by the
Council has no financial implications. Policy and Legislation Local
Government Act 1993 Sections: 413 - Preparation of Financial Reports 418 - Public notice to be given of presentation of
financial reports Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council The NSW Audit Office
has previously supplied Council with an interim management letter, which was
discussed at the 19 August 2021 Audit, Risk & Improvement Committee
Meeting. The interim management letter identified seven (7) issues with one (1)
rated as High, five (5) rated as Moderate and one (1) rated as Low. Council
officers will undertake the actions identified in the Management Responses
within the timeframes indicated. The
Management letter on the Final Phase of the Audit for the year ended 30 June
2021 will be presented to the 25 November 2021 Audit, Risk & Improvement
Committee meeting and will include Councils Management responses on any issues
raised. Internal / External
Consultation The
Council’s Community Engagement Strategy and IAP2 considers the community
to be “any individual or group of individuals, organisation or political
entity with an interest in the outcome of a decision….” Council’s
external auditors, NSW Audit Office have liaised with Council’s Finance
division, along with presenting the draft financial statements to the Audit,
Risk and Improvement Committee on 7 October 2021. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news story Council News advert Media releases TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community
  meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult X X Involve Collaborate Attachments 1 . 2020/21 Draft Annual
  Financial Statements - Provided under separate cover 2 . 2020/21 General
  Purpose Financial Statements - Statement by Councillors and Management -
  Provided under separate cover 3 . 2020/21 Special
  Purpose Financial Statements - Statement by Councillors and Management -
  Provided under separate cover Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-5 RP-5 New Year's Eve 2021 & 2022 Author: Madeleine
Scully Director: Janice Summerhayes Summary: Council has supported a New Year’s Eve event in the City for
  the past seven (7) years. An Expression of Interest (EOI) to deliver the 2021
  and 2022 New Year’s Eve events was advertised on 1 September 2021,
  closing on the 6 October 2021. One submission was received and is detailed in
  this report. Council staff are recommending that Council sponsor the New
  Year’s Eve submission received. Recommendation That
  Council: a       sponsor
  $54,000 (excluding GST), to Colab Creative (auspiced through Walsec
  Industries Pty Ltd) to support the delivery of the 31 December 2021 New
  Year’s Eve event, Light the Lake b       approve
  the General Manager or his delegate to proceed with (a) above and the signing
  of the event sponsorship agreement with Colab Creative (auspiced through
  Walsec Industries Pty Ltd) c        allow
  mobile food vans to operate at Lake Albert for the duration of the 31
  December 2021 New Year’s Eve Event as detailed in this report Report Background Funding for a New Year’s Eve Event to the value of $54,000
(excluding GST) is provided in Council’s Long-Term Financial Plan for an
external event organiser to run the event. Committee4Wagga initiated the City’s New Year’s Eve event
in 2013 and ran this event for four years at the Victory Memorial Gardens.
Following this Thomas Bros Group delivered the event in 2017 and 2018 at Lake
Albert. With no interest from organisations to deliver the New Year’s Eve
event in 2019, following an expression of interest process, Council contracted
the organisation of the event in addition to a firework display to external
providers. Due to extreme heat and a state-wide fire warning the fireworks
display was cancelled in 2019 and replaced with a small-scale celebration in
the Victory Memorial Gardens. An EOI was advertised for the delivery of the 2020 New Year’s
event but with the uncertainty around COVID-19 restrictions no submissions were
received, instead Council delivered a COVID-19 safe main street series of
activations to mark the occasion. Expression of
Interest process and submission An EOI for an external organisation to deliver the 2021 and 2022 New
Year’s Eve event opened on 1 September 2021 and closed 6 October 2021,
during which time three requests for information were received however only one
written submission was formally submitted. The written submission was received from Colab Creative, a small
local business that has been launched to provide event management services in
the city.  The business is operated by three Wagga Wagga residents with
event management, event security and marketing experience and skills. The
applicant has applied to deliver the 2021 event and has proposed the below
COVID-19 safe New Year’s Eve celebration – Light the Lake as
follows: Item Description Location Lake Albert
  Precinct Timing Commencing
  4:30pm and concluding at 10pm Event
  precincts Apex Park,
  Bosley Park and the open spaces around Lake Albert Programming · Four
  community areas around Lake Albert with food, buskers and entertainment · Licensed
  area at Apex Park to include food and music · VIP
  ticketed area at Bosley Park to include a DJ and food offerings · 9:30pm
  fireworks on the water at Lake Albert Sponsorship Colab Creative
  will seek financial assistance from sponsors to assist in the delivery of the
  event: One major sponsor up to the value of $15,000, complimented by four
  additional sponsors valued at $5,000 each. Event
  Budget The total
  event budget is estimated at $111,000 which includes
  Council’s contribution of $54,000 (excluding GST). A detailed budget is attached to this report. Council
  Sponsorship Council’s
  sponsorship of $54,000 will go towards: · Fireworks
  - $35,000 · Traffic
  Management – $3,000 · Toilets
  – $3,500 · COVID-
  19 safe event delivery $8,784 · Events
  Management Fees - $3,716 Council
  Recognition In recognition of
  this sponsorship Council will receive the naming rights to the
  fireworks. Council
  Requirements Council staff will assist the event organiser with event
  facilitation, site preparation and event promotion, which will form part of
  the event sponsorship agreement. Staff are recommending Council sponsor Colab
Creative (auspiced through Walsec Industries Pty Ltd) in the delivery of the
proposed New Year’s Eve event. The recommendation is made for the following
reasons: · The application
received is detailed and demonstrates the applicant’s event organisation
and marketing skills and knowledge along with an understanding of Work Health
Safety principles when delivering a public event · The Colab Creative
team offer a diverse skill set and experience that is commensurate with running
an event of this scale and nature · The proposed event
footprint demonstrates an understanding of COVID-19 safe principles and aligns
to the NSW Government’s Reopening NSW Roadmap · The proposed event
is family friendly, inclusive and meets Council’s Community Strategic
Plan objectives to provide opportunities to connect with others and to activate
our community event spaces · The event provides
opportunities for emerging local musicians to be showcased · There is
opportunity for event attendees to progress to city venues following the 9:30pm
fireworks to support the night-time economy and local venues as part of New
Year’s Eve celebrations across the City. Temporary Change to the Mobile Food Vendors Policy for this
event The Mobile Food Vendors – Trading in Public
Places Policy POL062 does not allow mobile food vans to operate within 200
metres of the boundary of an event or of an existing food and drink premises. In addition, mobile food vendors cannot trade with
more than four at a time in any one approved location. To assist with the
COVID-19 safe planning of this event it is recommended that the restrictions as
detailed above in POL062 Mobile Food Vendors – Trading in Public Places
Policy are lifted for the duration of this event from 3:00pm, 31 December 2021
to 12:00am, 1 January 2022. This will allow the event precinct to be activated
in the most efficient manner and provide for an inclusive event. Financial Implications The New Year’s Eve event has an
annual budget for the current 2021/22 financial year of $54,636 (excluding
GST).  This budget is available for an external event organiser to run the
event. Job number: 17670 – New Years Eve Policy and Legislation Local Government (General) Regulation
2005 POL 062 Mobile Food Vendors – Trading
in Public Places Link to Strategic Plan Community
Place and Identity Objective: We have
opportunities to connect with others Outcome: We activate our
community spaces to promote connectedness Risk Management Issues for
Council Risk management will be addressed as part
of the event management process and through the milestone activities outlined
in the event agreement, this includes ensuring the event is managed in a
COVID-19 safe manner based on the current Public Health Order in place at the
time. The event organiser has been advised that
they must seek permission from Transport for NSW to undertake an
on-water fireworks display and Police for the management of the event in
general and liquor licensing. Internal / External
Consultation Council advertised widely for Expressions
of Interests to be submitted for the delivery of the 2021 and 2022 New
Year’s Eve events. The Expression of Interest period opened on the 1 September 2021 and closed on 6 October
2021, during which time three requests for information were received, with one
written submission submitted. Internal consultation has been
undertaken with the Parks and Traffic Management teams to ensure appropriate
planning for this event has been considered. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news story Council News advert Media releases TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community
  meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult Involve Collaborate x x x x x x x x Attachments 1 . Light the Lake Event
  Budget This matter is
  considered to be confidential under Section 10A(2) of the Local Government
  Act 1993, as it deals with: commercial information of a confidential nature
  that would, if disclosed, reveal a trade secret. - Provided under separate cover 2 . Light the Lake Event
  Management Plan - Provided under separate cover 3 . Light the Lake
  Marketing Plan - Provided under separate cover 4 . Light the Lake Risk
  Assessment Management - Provided under separate cover 5 . Light the Lake Covid
  Safety Plan - Provided under separate cover 6 . Light the Lake NYE
  EOI Submission - Provided under separate cover 7 . Light the Lake
  Sponsorship Form - Provided under separate cover 8 ⇩ . Light the Lake -
  Auspice confirmation 9 . Walsec Industries
  Limited Financial Report This matter is
  considered to be confidential under Section 10A(2) of the Local Government
  Act 1993, as it deals with: commercial information of a confidential nature
  that would, if disclosed, reveal a trade secret. - Provided under separate cover 10 ⇩ . Email WDF - Walsec
  Industries 11 . Auspice Letter of
  Support - Provided under separate cover Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-5 Sent: Friday, 8 October 2021 4:52 PM To: FSD Electrics Cc: Oliver Hoffmann Subject: RE: Approval Hi
Chris, Thank
you for your email confirming your support of the 2021 New Year’s Eve
Event. If
you can complete the below information early next week and email back to me
that would be appreciated. Incorporated
Association or Australian Corporation Number Does your organisation
have and ABN? ABN: Auspice Organisation
Details Auspice Organisation Name: Auspice Organisation
Address: Auspice Organisation
Contact: Auspice Organisation
Contact Position: Auspice Organisation
Contact Phone Number: Auspice Organisation
Contact Email: Auspice Organisation
Incorporated Association or Australian Corporation Number: Please attached signed
letter of support by Auspice Organisation: Please attached a copy of
your Auspicing Organisations most recent annual report or copy of a current
financial statement: Kind
Regards Sally ____________ Sally Manning Events Officer 1300 292 442 Wagga Wagga City Council · 243 Baylis Street (PO Box 20) · Wagga
Wagga NSW 2650 Committed to a
thriving, innovative, connected and inclusive city Wagga Wagga City Council acknowledges the traditional custodians of the land,
the Wiradjuri people, and pays respect to Elders
past, present and future and extends our respect to all First Nations Peoples
in Wagga Wagga. We recognise and respect
their cultural heritage, beliefs and continuing connection with the land and
rivers. We also recognise the
resilience, strength and pride of the Wiradjuri and First Nations communities. From: FSD Electrics < admin@fsdelectrics.com.au > Sent: Friday, 8 October 2021 4:14 PM Subject: Approval CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organisation. Do
not click links or open attachments unless you recognise the sender and know
the content is safe. If you know this is a phishing email please forward to servicedesk@wagga.nsw.gov.au . Hi
Sally, I
can confirm that we are happy to support the proposed light to lake New Years
2021 event. Please
see our company ABN 92 628 299 455. Any
questions please let me know. Thank
you -- Christopher Waldron FSD Electrics Wagga Wagga NSW Email: admin@fsdelectrics.com.au Website: www.fsdelectrics.com.au Attention: This e-mail and any attachments are intended for the addressee/s and
may be confidential. If you have received this message in error, please delete
the message and notify the sender. The contents of this message does not
necessarily represent the opinions of FSD Electrics, its subsidiaries or
associated companies ("FSD Electrics"). FSD Electrics does not accept
any responsibility for loss or damage that may result from reliance on, or the
use of, the information contained in this e-mail and any attachments Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25
  October 2021 RP-5 Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-6 RP-6 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REPORT AS AT
30 SEPTEMBER 2021 Author: Carolyn
Rodney General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: This report
  is for Council to consider information presented on the 2021/22 budget and
  Long-Term Financial Plan, and details Council’s external investments
  and performance as at 30 September 2021. Recommendation That Council: a       approve
  the proposed 2021/22 budget variations for the month ended 30 September 2021
  and note the balanced budget position as presented in this report b       approve
  the proposed budget variations to future financial years of the Long-Term
  Financial Plan c        note
  the Responsible Accounting Officer’s reports, in accordance with the Local
  Government (General) Regulation 2005 (Part 9 Division 3: Clause 203) that
  the financial position of Council is satisfactory having regard to the
  original estimates of income and expenditure and the recommendations made
  above d       note
  the details of the external investments as at 30 September 2021 in accordance
  with section 625 of the Local Government Act 1993 Report Wagga Wagga
City Council (Council) forecasts a balanced budget position as at 30 September
2021. The balanced budget position excludes the Wagga Wagga Airport estimated
deficit result for the financial year, as any Airport deficit result will be
sanctioned, and funded in the interim by General Purpose Revenue (via the
Internal Loans Reserve).  The deficit results will be accounted for as a
liability in the Airport’s end of financial year statements, and paid
back to General Purpose Revenue (Internal Loans Reserve) by the Airport in
future financial years. Proposed budget
variations are detailed in this report for Council’s consideration and
adoption. Council has
experienced a negative monthly investment performance for the month of
September when compared to budget ($99,912 down on the monthly budget). This is
mainly due to a negative return for the month for Councils TCorp managed fund,
as well as a negative movement in the principal value of Councils Floating rate
note portfolio. Key Performance
Indicators OPERATING
INCOME Total operating
income is 24% of approved budget and is trending on budget for the month of
September 2021. An adjustment has been made to reflect the levy of rates that
occurred at the start of the financial year. Excluding this adjustment,
operating income received is 70% when compared to budget. OPERATING EXPENSES Total operating
expenditure is 26% of approved budget so it is tracking slightly over budget at
this stage of the financial year. This relates to some commitments that have
been raised for the full financial year, so excluding commitments the total
expenditure is 23% when compared to the approved budget. CAPITAL INCOME Total capital
income is 11% of approved budget. It is important to note that the actual
income from capital is influenced by the timing of the receipt of capital
grants and contributions relating to projects. This income also includes the
sale of property, plant and equipment. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Total capital
expenditure including commitments is 39% of approved budget (including pending
projects) which is as a result of purchase orders being raised for the full
contract amounts for multi-year projects. Excluding commitments, the total
expenditure is 7% when compared to the approved budget. WAGGA WAGGA CITY COUNCIL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1 JULY 2021 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2021 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT ORIGINAL BUDGET 2021/22 BUDGET ADJ 2021/22 APPROVED BUDGET 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL   EXCL COMMT'S 2021/22 COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL + COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD % OF BUD Revenue Rates
  & Annual Charges (73,169,576) 0 (73,169,576) (18,013,528) 0 (18,013,528) 25% User Charges & Fees (25,225,528) (222,906) (25,447,204) (6,166,226) 0 (6,166,226) 24% Interest
  & Investment Revenue (2,014,844) 0 (2,014,844) (546,147) 0 (546,147) 27% Other Revenues (3,436,033) (299,363) (3,736,625) (820,901) 0 (820,901) 22% Operating
  Grants & Contributions (12,902,235) (1,096,242) (13,998,477) (2,923,160) 0 (2,923,160) 21% Capital Grants & Contributions (82,436,148) (13,111,571) (95,547,719) (10,582,344) 0 (10,582,344) 11% Total
  Revenue (199,184,362) (14,730,082) (213,914,445) (39,052,307) 0 (39,052,307) 18% Expenses Employee Benefits & On-Costs 49,289,314 2,467 49,291,782 11,595,912 0 11,595,912 24% Borrowing
  Costs 3,211,705 0 3,211,705 580,023 0 580,023 18% Materials & Services 35,727,106 6,327,008 42,054,113 9,449,994 3,762,015 13,212,009 31% Depreciation
  & Amortisation 39,287,050 0 39,287,050 9,821,762 0 9,821,762 25% Other Expenses 3,708,040 2,437,752 6,145,792 1,381,551 2,534 1,384,085 23% Total
  Expenses 131,223,215 8,767,227 139,990,442 32,829,242 3,764,549 36,593,791 26% Net
  Operating (Profit)/Loss (67,961,147) (5,962,856) (73,924,002) (6,223,065) 3,764,549 (2,458,516) Net
  Operating (Profit)/Loss before Capital Grants & Contributions 14,475,001 7,148,715 21,623,716 4,359,280 3,764,549 8,123,829 Capital
  / Reserve Movements Capital Expenditure - One Off Confirmed 67,205,986 30,759,291 97,965,276 9,160,046 49,384,316 58,544,362 60% Capital Expenditure – Recurrent 18,487,675 1,058,314 19,545,989 1,757,077 2,623,007 4,380,083 22% Capital Exp – Pending Projects 51,844,544 (11,255,454) 40,589,090 4,919 1,116 6,035 0% Loan
  Repayments 8,236,502 0 8,236,502 1,434,126 0 1,434,126 17% New Loan Borrowings (17,678,518) (3,750,362) (21,428,880) 0 0 0 0% Sale
  of Assets (804,819) (2,106,159) (2,910,978) (376,240) 0 (376,240) 13% Net Movements Reserves (20,043,173) (8,742,774) (28,785,946) 0 0 0 0% Total
  Cap/Res Movements 107,248,197 5,962,856 113,211,053 11,979,927 52,008,438 63,988,365 ORIGINAL BUDGET 2021/22 BUDGET ADJ 2021/22 APPROVED BUDGET 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL   EXCL COMMT'S
  2021/22 COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL + COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD % OF BUD Net Result after Depreciation 39,287,050 0 39,287,050 5,756,862 55,772,988 61,529,850 Add back Depreciation Expense 39,287,050 0 39,287,050 9,821,762 0 9,821,762 25% Cash Budget (Surplus) /
  Deficit 0 0 0 (4,064,900) 55,772,988 51,708,087 Long
Term Financial Plan (Surplus) /Deficit Description Budget 2021/22 Budget 2022/23 Budget 2023/24 Budget 2024/25 Budget 2025/26 Budget 2026/27 Budget 2027/28 Budget 2028/29 Budget 2029/30 Budget 2030/31 Adopted Bottom Line (Surplus) / Deficit 0 860,298 1,751,328 2,469,233 3,928,332 3,831,470 3,259,284 3,494,780 3,511,108 3,930,045 Prior Adopted Bottom Line Adjustments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Revised Bottom Line (Surplus) / Deficit 0 860,298 1,751,328 2,469,233 3,928,332 3,831,470 3,259,284 3,494,780 3,511,108 3,930,045 2021/22 Revised Budget
  Result – (Surplus) / Deficit $’000s Original 2021/22 Budget Result
  as adopted by Council Total Budget Variations approved to
  date Budget Variations for September
  2021 $0K $0K $0K Proposed
  Revised Budget result for 30 September 2021 - (Surplus) / Deficit $0K The proposed
Budget Variations for 30 September 2021 are listed below: Budget Variation Amount Funding
   Source Net
   Impact (Fav)/
   Unfav 1 – Community
  Leadership and Collaboration Asset Revaluations $40K Internal Loans Reserve ($40K) Nil Council is required, under the
  Australian Accounting Standards, to undertake revaluations of its assets
  every 3-5 years. In 2021/22 Council is undertaking a number of revaluations,
  including for its land and buildings portfolio. To allow Council to engage a
  suitably qualified valuer to undertake this work, funding of $40K is required
  to be brought forward from 2022/23, where the buildings revaluation was
  originally budgeted to be performed. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2022 Job
  Consolidation: 12184 2 – Safe and Healthy
  Community Wiradjuri Trail Maintenance $20K Crown Lands Grant Income ($20K) Nil Council has been successful in
  securing a Crown Lands Grant for the Wiradjuri Trail Horticultural
  Maintenance. The maintenance works that will be undertaken by Councils Parks
  Staff will be for the sections of the trail near Flowerdale, Silvalite and
  Lloyd. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2022 Job
  Consolidation: 21594 Active Travel Research Project $77K Sydney University Contribution
  ($77K) Nil Wagga Wagga City Council is
  partnering with the Sydney University, the Murrumbidgee Local Health
  District, Transport NSW and I-Moves Australia to complete an evaluation of
  the Wagga Wagga Active travel project. Part of the research being undertaken
  requires an additional 5 electronic counters to be installed on various
  segments of the paths. Sydney University will be
  reimbursing Council the cost of these counters and partly funding the
  staffing costs of monitoring them. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2022 Job
  Consolidation: 21620 3 – Growing Economy Squeeze Music Festival $13K Spring Jam ($8K) Youth Programming ($5K) Nil An
  offer has been made to include Wagga Wagga in the regional tour of the youth
  based Squeeze Music Festival organised through Chugg Entertainment for
  April 2022. The event is for all ages particularly targeting the demographic
  of 16-30 year olds and will be scheduled as a key event in Council’s
  FRESH festival 2022 annual program. The event will be headlined by Lime
  Cordiale with support from emerging Triple J artists and a local music act.
   Given a quarter of the City’s population is under 18 years old
  with a median age of 35 years this event is considered a strong fit for our
  community’s demography.  The expected event attendance is 3,000 to
  6,000 and will generate out of region visitation of approximately
  30%. An appropriate venue will be negotiated with the event organiser
  along with DA approval. The
  cost to attract and support this event is $12,500 which will cover the costs
  associated with securing this festival for the City, venue fees and
  marketing.  This is proposed to be funded from the remaining balance in
  the Spring Jam 2021/22 budget as this festival was cancelled this Spring due
  to COVID-19 restrictions along with youth programming funds allocated in this
  financial year. Job
  Consolidation: 21618 Airport Taxiway Project $87K Federal Government Contribution ($87K) Nil The additional budget for the
  Airport Taxiways project recognises the additional scope required for this project.
  There is no additional net expense to Council, as all of Councils costs are
  fully recovered from the Federal Government including a margin for project
  management and coordination that will generate additional revenue to
  contribute towards the current proposed 2021/22 Airport deficit result. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2022 Job:
  47308 4
  – Community Place and Identity Civic Theatre Income Civic Theatre Promoters $94K $136K NSW Performing Arts Covid-19
  Support Grant Income ($230K) Nil The Wagga Wagga Civic Theatre have
  been advised that they are eligible for the NSW Government Economic Recovery
  Package for NSW Venues and Promoters that have lost income due to shows being
  cancelled or postponed during the period from late June 2021 to the end of
  September 2021. The funds will be paid in the form of a grant, with Council
  acting as the Primary Applicant. Council will receive approximately $230K,
  with $136K of this being paid to Promoters and Council retaining the
  remaining $94K to cover the loss of income by the Civic Theatre during this
  period. Job
  Consolidation: 21591 Create NSW Grants Program
  Services $100K Create NSW State Government
  Grant Income ($100K) Nil Council has been successful in
  securing grant funds from the Create NSW State Government for the Wagga Wagga
  Art Gallery for the next 2 financial years (2021/22 $100,000 + 2022/23
  $95,000). This funding will allow the Wagga Wagga Art Gallery to innovate the
  Gallery’s programming, build organisational capacity, and diversify
  audiences through exhibition project development and presentation, regional
  artists residency and support program and key project partnerships. Projects
  will support local, regional NSW, Sydney, ACT and First Nations (Wiradjuri)
  artists and curators. Specifically, during the 2022
  calendar year the grant funds will be used for ten nominated program projects
  which include: Artist fees x 13 for specified exhibitions; Artist Residency
  stipend x 3; Curator fee x 1; and Project Support x 3. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2023 Job
  Consolidation: 20660 5 – The Environment Old Narrandera Road
  Reconstruction & Sealing $600K Fixing Local Roads Grant Funding ($600K) Nil Council has recently been advised
  its grant application of $1,669K submitted to Transport for NSW under the
  Fixing Country Roads Program for the reconstruction and sealing of a 5.4km
  section of Old Narrandera Road was successful. Council are required to contribute
  additional funds of $556K to the project and it is proposed to fund this
  amount from the Local Roads and Community Infrastructure (LRCI) Round 3 Grant
  of $4.1M which has $1.286M currently unallocated. It is proposed to schedule the
  budget $600K in 2021/22 and $1,625K in 2022/23. This project is subject to approval
  from LRCI (January 2022) and should not be commenced until that time. In the
  event that this project is not approved under the LRCI program, other funding
  sources will be provided to Council. Estimated Completion: 28 October
  2022 Job
  Number: 21598 $0K The Pending
Projects list is a list of adopted Capital Works projects which have not been
included in the 2021/22 Delivery Program for the following reason(s): -  Capacity and
resourcing constraints -  Project
description and scope not fully defined -  External
funding to be determined The following projects are now considered to meet the
necessary requirements to be included in the Capital Works Delivery Program: Capital Works Project Prior Years 2021/22 Budget Future Years Total Project Budget Comments Oasis –
  Circulation Pumps Replacement (All Pools) Job Consolidation: 28121 $0 $145,000 $0 $145,000 Currently $0 delivery and $145,000 pending. Proposed
  $145,000 delivery and $0 pending. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2022 Civic Theatre
  Audio System Upgrade Job Consolidation: 19567 $0 $80,000 $0 $80,000 Currently $0 delivery and $80,000 pending. Proposed
  $80,000 delivery and $0 pending. Estimated Completion: 30 June
  2022 Lake Albert
  Road Stg 3B Urban Asphalt Job Consolidation: 21003 $35,806 $2,098,585 $0 $2,134,391 Currently $0 delivery and $2,098,585 pending. Proposed
  $2,098,585 delivery and $0 pending. Estimated Completion: 30 June
  2022 2021/22     Capital
Works Summary Capital
  Works Approved Budget Proposed Movement Proposed Budget One-off $97,965,275 $2,000,585 $100,965,860 Recurrent $19,545,988 $0 $19,545,988 Pending $40,589,091 ($2,323,585) $38,265,506 Total Capital Works $158,100,354 $677,000 $158,777,354 Current Restrictions RESERVES SUMMARY 30 SEPTEMBER 2021 CLOSING BALANCE 2020/21 ADOPTED RESERVE TRANSFERS 2021/22 BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED UP TO COUNCIL
  MEETING 27.9.2021 PROPOSED CHANGES for Council Resolution BALANCE AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2021 Externally Restricted Developer
  Contributions - Section 7.11 (27,924,028) 547,854 1,344,192 (26,031,982) Developer Contributions - Section 7.12 462,032 (28,215) 0 433,817 Developer
  Contributions - Stormwater Section 64 (5,936,952) (617,863) 110,111 (6,444,704) Sewer Fund (29,992,670) 3,094,449 808,499 (26,089,723) Solid
  Waste (21,429,172) 10,541,347 1,763,921 (9,123,905) Specific Purpose Unexpended Grants & Contributions (9,204,765) 9,204,765 0 SRV
  Levee Reserve (6,439,536) 64,774 (6,374,762) Stormwater Levy (4,588,976) (352,886) 493,166 (4,448,696) Total
  Externally Restricted (105,054,067) 13,184,685 13,789,427 0 (78,079,955) Internally Restricted Airport 0 420,584 (420,584) 0 Art
  Gallery (1,709) 0 0 (1,709) Bridge Replacement (296,805) 0 0 (296,805) Buildings (1,046,797) 159,433 958 (886,405) CBD Carparking Facilities (498,295) 498,295 0 0 CCTV (100,843) 18,000 12,000 (70,843) Cemetery (828,348) (218,116) 0 (1,046,464) Civic
  Theatre (39,666) 5,930 (33,736) Civil Infrastructure (9,786,909) 2,236,679 536,968 (7,013,261) Community
  Works (171,505) (40,429) 56,851 (155,083) Council Election (542,957) 403,602 0 (139,354) Economic
  Development (436,848) 367,520 (69,328) Emergency Events Reserve (231,184) (50,000) 30,444 (250,740) Employee
  Leave Entitlements Gen Fund (3,798,309) 0 (3,798,309) Environmental Conservation (116,578) 75,000 0 (41,578) Event
  Attraction (302,414) 122,647 (179,767) Grants Commission (5,382,345) 5,382,345 0 Gravel
  Pit Restoration (820,851) 3,333 7,980 (809,537) Information Services (1,052,159) 105,305 272,496 (674,358) Insurance Variations (50,000) 0 (50,000) Internal Loans (3,022,169) 1,158,394 147,981 40,000 (1,675,794) Lake Albert Improvements (84,423) (21,417) 0 (105,839) Livestock Marketing Centre (4,447,351) 863,862 293,109 (3,290,380) Museum Acquisitions (39,378) 15,000 0 (24,378) Net Zero Emissions (375,555) 210,165 15,000 (150,390) Oasis Reserve (1,266,045) 764,654 114,690 (386,700) CLOSING BALANCE 2020/21 ADOPTED RESERVE TRANSFERS 2021/22 BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED UP TO COUNCIL
  MEETING 27.9.2021 PROPOSED CHANGES for Council Resolution BALANCE AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2021 Parks & Recreation Projects (942,906) (67,410) 218,006 (792,310) Planning
  Legals (60,000) (40,000) 0 (100,000) Plant Replacement (4,302,142) 21,032 1,829,093 (2,452,017) Project
  Carryovers (3,816,168) 76,000 3,740,168 0 Public Art (177,324) 138,183 25,613 (13,528) Sister
  Cities (40,000) (10,000) 0 (50,000) Stormwater Drainage (158,178) 0 (158,178) Strategic
  Real Property (800,000) 800,000 0 Subdivision Tree Planting (486,675) 20,000 0 (466,675) Unexpended
  External Loans (2,004,486) 118,338 1,783,972 (102,177) Workers Compensation (190,649) 0 (190,649) Total
  Internally Restricted (47,717,970) 6,858,488 15,343,187 40,000 (25,476,295) Total
  Restricted (152,772,037) 20,043,173 29,132,614 0 (103,556,250) Total
  Unrestricted (9,818,000) 0 0 0 (9,818,000) Total
  Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments (162,590,037) 20,043,173 29,132,614 40,000 (113,374,250) CONTRACTS REVIEW STATEMENT 1st July 2021- 30th September 2021 Contract Number Contractor Contract Detail & Purpose Contract Value Inc GST Start Date Award Date Budgeted Y/N PD45445 Wagga
  Trucks Hino Supply
  truck $114,724.94 2/09/2021 10 weeks Y PD45599 Elliot's
  Concreting Kerb
  & Gutter Works Dobney Avenue Pearson St $169,874.94 17/08/2021 8 Weeks Y PD45823 Rocla
  Pipeline Products Supply
  pipes & culverts $223,019.37 1/09/2021 8 weeks Y PE18359 Datacom
  Systems MS
  License agreement $257,190.25 1/07/2021 36 months Y PE18481 Technology
  One Software
  licence $104,555.86 16/06/2021 52 weeks Y PP18851 Elliot's
  Concreting Concrete
  works Lloyd $122,596.10 30/09/2021 8 weeks Y Notes: 1.
  Minimum reporting level is 1% of estimated income from continuing operations
  or $50,000, whichever is the lesser. 2.
  Contracts to be listed are those entered into during the quarter and have yet
  to be fully performed, excluding contractors that are on Council's Preferred
  Supplier list. 3.
  Contracts for employment are not required to be included. 4.
  Where a contract for services etc was not included in the budget, an
  explanation is to be given (or reference made to an explanation in another
  Budget Review Statement). CONSULTANCY & LEGAL EXPENSES BUDGET
  REVIEW STATEMENT 30 SEPTEMBER 2021 Approved Changes BUDGET 2021/22 SEPTEMBER QTR BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED
  TO DATE REVISED BUDGET PROJECTED YEAR END RESULT ACTUAL YTD Consultancy
  Expenses 141,617 48,145 189,762 189,762 49,733 Legal
  Expenses 248,136 34,957 283,092 283,092 121,234 Investment Summary as at 30 September 2021 In accordance
with Regulation 212 of the Local Government (General) Regulation 2005 ,
details of Wagga Wagga City Council’s external investments are outlined
below. Institution Rating Closing
  Balance Invested 31/08/2021 $ Closing
  Balance Invested 30/09/2021 $ September EOM Current Yield % September EOM % of Portfolio Investment Date Maturity Date Term (mths) Short Term Deposits NAB AA- 1,000,000 0 0.00% 0.00% 14/09/2020 14/09/2021 12 Total
  Short Term Deposits 1,000,000 0 0.00% 0.00% At Call Accounts NAB AA- 301,258 442,734 0.10% 0.26% N/A N/A N/A Rabobank A+ 31,774 0 0.01% 0.00% N/A N/A N/A CBA AA- 2,929,668 869,446 0.10% 0.51% N/A N/A N/A CBA AA- 26,618,863 20,121,257 0.15% 11.78% N/A N/A N/A Macquarie Bank A+ 9,026,366 9,029,333 0.40% 5.29% N/A N/A N/A Total
  At Call Accounts 38,907,928 30,462,771 0.22% 17.83% Medium Term Deposits RaboBank A+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.16% 0.59% 5/06/2017 6/06/2022 60 AMP BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.95% 1.17% 30/11/2020 30/05/2022 18 Westpac AA- 3,000,000 3,000,000 1.11% 1.76% 10/03/2017 10/03/2022 60 Auswide BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.85% 1.17% 6/10/2020 6/10/2022 24 BOQ BBB+ 2,000,000 2,000,000 3.35% 1.17% 3/01/2018 4/01/2022 48 BOQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.50% 0.59% 1/06/2018 1/06/2022 48 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.32% 1.17% 28/06/2021 29/06/2026 60 BOQ BBB+ 3,000,000 3,000,000 3.25% 1.76% 28/08/2018 29/08/2022 48 P&N Bank BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.10% 0.59% 16/10/2018 18/10/2021 36 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 3.05% 1.17% 13/11/2018 15/11/2021 36 P&N Bank BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.30% 0.59% 20/11/2018 21/11/2022 48 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 3.01% 1.17% 30/11/2018 30/11/2021 36 Bendigo-Adelaide BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.25% 0.59% 30/11/2018 30/11/2022 48 Newcastle Permanent BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 3.05% 1.17% 8/02/2019 8/02/2022 36 Newcastle Permanent BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 2.70% 1.17% 23/04/2019 26/04/2022 36 BoQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.40% 0.59% 22/05/2019 23/05/2022 36 BoQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.15% 0.59% 8/07/2019 10/07/2023 48 Auswide BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.95% 0.59% 12/08/2019 12/08/2022 36 Judo Bank BBB- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.90% 0.59% 10/09/2019 9/09/2022 36 Auswide BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.72% 0.59% 3/10/2019 4/10/2022 36 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 2.03% 1.17% 6/11/2019 6/11/2024 60 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.83% 1.17% 28/11/2019 28/11/2024 60 Judo Bank BBB- 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.20% 0.59% 5/12/2019 3/12/2021 24 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.75% 0.59% 6/01/2020 8/01/2024 48 BOQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.00% 0.59% 28/02/2020 28/02/2025 60 ING Bank A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.50% 1.17% 2/03/2020 2/03/2022 24 Macquarie Bank A+ 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.40% 1.17% 9/03/2020 9/03/2022 24 Police Credit Union NR 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.20% 0.59% 1/04/2020 1/04/2025 60 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.85% 0.59% 29/05/2020 29/05/2025 60 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.86% 0.59% 1/06/2020 2/06/2025 60 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.75% 1.17% 25/06/2020 25/06/2025 60 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.75% 1.17% 25/06/2020 25/06/2025 60 Institution Rating Closing
  Balance Invested 31/08/2021 $ Closing
  Balance Invested 30/09/2021 $ September EOM Current Yield % September EOM % of Portfolio Investment Date Maturity Date Term (mths) ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.60% 1.17% 29/06/2020 28/06/2024 48 ICBC A 3,000,000 3,000,000 1.25% 1.76% 30/06/2020 30/06/2022 24 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.42% 1.17% 7/07/2020 8/07/2024 48 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.50% 1.17% 17/08/2020 18/08/2025 60 BoQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.25% 0.59% 7/09/2020 8/09/2025 60 BoQ BBB+ 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.25% 1.17% 14/09/2020 15/09/2025 60 NAB AA- 0 1,000,000 0.60% 0.59% 14/09/2021 14/09/2023 24 AMP BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.95% 0.59% 26/11/2020 25/05/2022 18 AMP BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.95% 1.17% 7/12/2020 6/06/2022 18 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.20% 0.59% 7/12/2020 8/12/2025 60 Warwick CU NR 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.75% 0.59% 29/01/2021 30/01/2023 24 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.95% 1.17% 29/01/2021 29/01/2026 60 NAB AA- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.08% 0.59% 22/02/2021 20/02/2026 60 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.25% 1.17% 3/03/2021 2/03/2026 60 Summerland CU NR 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.75% 0.59% 29/04/2021 28/04/2023 24 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.40% 1.17% 21/06/2021 19/06/2026 60 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.65% 1.17% 25/06/2021 26/06/2023 24 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.32% 1.17% 25/06/2021 25/06/2026 60 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.32% 0.59% 25/08/2021 25/08/2026 60 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.65% 1.17% 31/08/2021 31/08/2023 24 Total
  Medium Term Deposits 82,000,000 83,000,000 1.76% 48.58% Floating Rate Notes -
  Senior Debt Bendigo-Adelaide BBB+ 506,662 506,469 BBSW +
  105 0.30% 25/01/2018 25/01/2023 60 Newcastle Permanent BBB 1,522,619 1,523,547 BBSW +
  140 0.89% 6/02/2018 6/02/2023 60 UBS A+ 2,026,348 2,020,826 BBSW +
  90 1.18% 8/03/2018 8/03/2023 60 AMP BBB 1,503,913 0 0.00% 0.00% 10/09/2018 10/09/2021 36 CBA AA- 3,074,379 3,069,972 BBSW +
  113 1.80% 11/01/2019 11/01/2024 60 Westpac AA- 3,079,878 3,074,179 BBSW +
  114 1.80% 24/01/2019 24/04/2024 63 ANZ AA- 2,558,482 2,554,745 BBSW +
  110 1.50% 8/02/2019 8/02/2024 60 NAB AA- 2,043,690 2,040,634 BBSW +
  104 1.19% 26/02/2019 26/02/2024 60 Bank of China Australia A 1,515,504 1,514,956 BBSW +
  100 0.89% 17/04/2019 17/10/2022 42 Westpac AA- 2,552,109 2,545,437 BBSW +
  88 1.49% 16/05/2019 16/08/2024 63 Suncorp-Metway A+ 1,267,381 1,267,095 BBSW +
  78 0.74% 30/07/2019 30/07/2024 60 ANZ AA- 2,034,946 2,030,134 BBSW +
  77 1.19% 29/08/2019 29/08/2024 60 HSBC AA- 2,542,376 2,536,427 BBSW +
  83 1.48% 27/09/2019 27/09/2024 60 Bank Australia BBB 1,514,653 1,510,656 BBSW +
  90 0.88% 2/12/2019 2/12/2022 36 ANZ AA- 1,526,952 1,523,914 BBSW +
  76 0.89% 16/01/2020 16/01/2025 60 NAB AA- 2,037,845 2,032,432 BBSW +
  77 1.19% 21/01/2020 21/01/2025 60 Newcastle Permanent BBB 1,124,571 1,123,967 BBSW +
  112 0.66% 4/02/2020 4/02/2025 60 Macquarie Bank A+ 2,029,270 2,028,114 BBSW +
  84 1.19% 12/02/2020 12/02/2025 60 BOQ Covered AAA 564,242 563,637 BBSW +
  107 0.33% 14/05/2020 14/05/2025 60 UBS A+ 950,759 950,545 BBSW +
  105 0.56% 21/05/2020 21/11/2022 30 Credit Suisse A+ 1,320,392 1,320,038 BBSW +
  115 0.77% 26/05/2020 26/05/2023 36 UBS A+ 1,528,137 1,525,334 BBSW +
  87 0.89% 30/07/2020 30/07/2025 60 Bank of China Australia A 1,513,642 1,513,277 BBSW +
  78 0.89% 27/10/2020 27/10/2023 36 Total
  Floating Rate Notes - Senior Debt 40,338,750 38,776,335 22.70% Institution Rating Closing
  Balance Invested 31/08/2021 $ Closing
  Balance Invested 30/09/2021 $ September EOM Current Yield % September EOM % of Portfolio Investment Date Maturity Date Term (mths) Fixed Rate Bonds ING Covered AAA 752,029 743,376 1.10% 0.44% 19/08/2021 19/08/2026 60 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 3,000,000 3,000,000 1.00% 1.76% 24/08/2021 16/12/2024 40 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 3,000,000 3,000,000 1.50% 1.76% 24/08/2021 15/12/2026 64 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.50% 1.17% 6/08/2021 15/12/2026 64 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.50% 0.59% 14/07/2021 15/12/2026 65 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.30% 1.17% 29/04/2021 15/06/2026 61 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.00% 1.17% 30/11/2020 15/12/2025 60 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.00% 0.59% 20/11/2020 15/12/2025 61 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.00% 1.17% 21/10/2020 15/12/2025 62 Total
  Fixed Rate Bonds 16,752,029 16,743,376 1.22% 9.80% Managed Funds NSW Tcorp NR 1,894,221 1,855,549 -2.04% 1.09% 17/03/2014 1/09/2026 149 Total
  Managed Funds 1,894,221 1,855,549 -2.04% 1.09% TOTAL CASH ASSETS, CASH EQUIVALENTS & INVESTMENTS 180,892,929 170,838,031 100.00% LESS: RIVERINA REGIONAL LIBRARY
  (RRL) CASH AT BANK 4,135,720 3,792,471 TOTAL WWCC CASH ASSETS, CASH EQUIVALENTS & INVESTMENTS 176,757,209 167,045,560 Council’s
investment portfolio is dominated by Term Deposits, equating to approximately
48% of the portfolio across a broad range of counterparties. Cash equates to
18%, with Floating Rate Notes (FRNs) around 23%, fixed rate bonds around 10%
and growth funds around 1% of the portfolio. Council’s
investment portfolio is well diversified in complying assets across the entire
credit spectrum. It is also well diversified from a rating perspective. Credit quality
is diversified and is predominately invested amongst the investment grade
Authorised Deposit-Taking Institutions (ADIs) (being BBB- or higher), with a
smaller allocation to unrated ADIs. All investments are within the defined Policy limits, as outlined in
the Rating Allocation chart below : Investment Portfolio Balance Council’s investment portfolio balance has decreased
significantly from the previous month’s balance, down from $176.8M to $ 167.0M.
This is a result of several large contract payments being made during the
month. Monthly Investment Movements Redemptions/Sales – Council
redeemed the following investment security during September 2021: Institution
   and Type Amount Investment Term Interest Rate Comments AMP Bank (BBB) Floating Rate
  Note $1.5M 3
  years BBSW
  + 108bps This floating
  rate note was redeemed on maturity. New Investments – Council
did not purchase any new investment securities during September 2021. Rollovers – Council rolled
over the following investment security during September 2021: Institution
   and Type Amount Investment Term Interest Rate Comments NAB Bank (AA-)
  Term Deposit $1M 5 years 0.60% This term deposit was a 1‑year investment earning 0.75% and
  was rolled at maturity into a new 2-year term deposit at 0.60% - with the
  next best rate being 0.59%. Monthly Investment Performance Interest/growth/capital
gains/(losses) for the month totalled $50,127, which compares unfavourably with
the budget for the period of $150,039 - underperforming budget for the month by
$99,912. Council’s
underperformance to budget for September was a result of Council’s TCorp
Long Term Growth fund experiencing a negative return for the month of
September, returning -2.04% (or -$38,672) for the month as domestic and
international shares returned -1.85% and -4.76% respectively for the
month.  It is important to note that this is a long term investment and
will experience individual months of negative returns, however over the long
term will return a high rate of return. Council’s
Floating rate note portfolio also experienced a negative movement in the
principal value of these investments, down -0.20% (or -$75,834) as at 30
September 2021, as trading margins widened. In comparison to the AusBond Bank Bill Index* of 0.00%
(annualised), Council’s investment portfolio returned 0.96% (annualised)
for the month of September. Cash and At‑Call accounts returned 0.24%
(annualised) for the month. These funds are utilised for daily cash flow
management and need to be available to meet operating and contractual payments
as they fall due. Over the past
year, Councils investment portfolio has returned 1.56%, outperforming the
AusBond Bank Bill index by 1.52%. *
The AusBond Bank Bill Index is the leading benchmark for the Australian fixed
income market. It is interpolated from the RBA Cash rate, 1 month and 3-month
Bank Bill Swap rates. Report by Responsible
Accounting Officer I hereby certify that all of the above investments have been made
in accordance with the provision of Section 625 of the Local Government Act
1993 and the regulations there under, and in accordance with the
Investments Policy adopted by Council on 15 June 2020. Carolyn Rodney Responsible Accounting Officer Policy and Legislation Budget variations are reported in
accordance with Council’s POL 052 Budget Policy . Investments are
reported in accordance with Council’s POL 075 Investment Policy . Local
Government Act 1993 Section 625
- How may councils invest? Local
Government (General) Regulation 2005 Section 212 - Reports on council investments Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council This report
is a control mechanism that assists in addressing the following potential risks
to Council: · Loss
of investment income or capital resulting from ongoing management of
investments, especially during difficult economic times · Failure
to demonstrate to the community that its funds are being expended in an efficient
and effective manner Internal / External
Consultation All relevant
areas within the Council have consulted with the Finance Division in relation
to the budget variations listed in this report. The Finance
Division has consulted with relevant external parties to confirm
Council’s investment portfolio balances. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Capital Works Program 2021.22 to
  2031.32 Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-6 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 RP-7 RP-7 SECTION 356 REQUESTS FOR FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE Author: Carolyn
Rodney General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: Council has
  received a number of fee waiver requests which is detailed for
  Council’s consideration. Recommendation That
  Council: a       in
  accordance with Section 356 of the Local Government Act 1993, provide
  financial assistance to the following groups: i.     St
  Vincent de Paul Society (NSW): $1,725.00 (Request 1) ii.    Combined
  Riders of Wagga Wagga: $270.00 (Request 2) b       note
  the proposed budget available for financial assistance requests for the
  remainder of the 2021/22 financial year Report Two (2) Section 356 financial assistance requests are
proposed for consideration at the 25 October 2021 Ordinary Council meeting,
which is shown below: 1. St
Vincent de Paul Society (NSW) Lisa Whillans, Operations Support Officer at St Vincent de
Paul Society (NSW) writes: Dear Mr Peter Thompson, I am writing to apply for a fee
waiver for the utilisation of McDonald Park club rooms over the period of
December 2021. 23-days x $75.00 per day =
Total $1,725.00. Every year the St Vincent de Paul
Society in Wagga Wagga provides between 400 and 450 Christmas Hampers to
residents in Wagga and surrounds. Provision of these hampers provides much
needed support to the homeless, families experiencing financial hardship,
victims of domestic violence, pensioners, and many others. These residents
depend on support of the St Vincent de Paul Society to see them through the
Christmas period. This year we have an overwhelming need as many residents have
experienced financial hardship for the first time due to COVID-19. As we need consistent quality and
content of our hampers, we purchase the hamper inclusions and design the hamper
specifically tailored to the need. The Utilisation of the McDonald Park Club
rooms would provide us with adequate space to pack and a secure place to store
the hampers. We believe our Christmas Hampers provide an extra bit of support
at this special time of year, to take some pressure off, putting a smile on the
faces of those who without our support wouldn’t be able to make ends
meet. Every year the local motor bike
club works with us to do a “Toy Run”, supplying majority of the
toys given to families as part of the Christmas Hamper. Depending on the
COVID-19 regulations, we might not be able to progress with the toy run. Our
resources stretched to find additional funds to purchase the toys for the
children. Our dedicated team of volunteers
who devote their time to collect and assemble and deliver the hampers to Wagga
and surround, would really appreciate your kind donation of a fee waiver of the
McDonald Park club rooms. The above
request aligns with Council’s Strategic Plan “Community place and
Identity” – Objective: “We have opportunities to connect with
others”. Councils Booking Officer advises that the
Club Room is available for the above period at a charge of $75.00 per day. The
overall cost of the request for 23 days is $1,725.00 which is proposed to be
funded from the unallocated funds within the general Section 356 budget. The St
Vincent de Paul Society (NSW) have not received any other funding from Council
in the 2021/22 financial year. 2. Combined
Riders of Wagga Wagga Pat Combs, Coordinator 2021 Toy Run writes: Dear Sir, Once again we
will be conducting the Annual Wagga Toy Run which will terminate at the Civic
Complex on Saturday the 4 th December. Being a
charitable event would you consider waving the venue hire at the Wollundry
Lagoon Precinct for this event? Yours sincerely Pat Combs Coordinator 2021
Toy Run The above
request aligns with Council’s Strategic Plan “Community place and
Identity” – Objective: “We have opportunities to connect with
others”. Councils Venue Coordinator advises that the
Wollundry Lagoon Precinct is available on the 4 th December 2021 at a
total cost of $270.00. The total request of $270.00 is proposed to be funded
from the unallocated funds within the general Section 356 budget. The Combined
Riders of Wagga Wagga have not received any other funding from Council in the 2021/22
financial year. Financial Implications Section 356 Budget Summary Previously advised unallocated balance of 2021/22
  Section 356 fee waiver financial assistance budget $11,142.44 1) St Vincent de Paul Society (NSW) ($1,725.00) 2) Combined Riders of Wagga Wagga ($270.00) Subtotal Fee Waivers
  included in this report – proposed to be funded from
  the Section 356 Budget ($1,995.00) Balance of Section 356 fee waiver financial
  assistance budget for the remainder of the 2021/22 Financial Year $9,147.44 Policy and Legislation POL 078 – Financial
Assistance Policy Link to Strategic Plan Community
Place and Identity Objective: We have
opportunities to connect with others Outcome: Groups, programs
and activities bring us together Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation Cross
Directorate consultation has been undertaken as required. Attachments 1 ⇩ . St Vincent de Paul Society - Section
  356 Request 2 ⇩ . Combined Riders of Wagga Wagga - Section
  356 Request i. Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 ii. RP-7 iii. Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 iv. RP-7 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 RP-8 RP-8 PETITION - WAGGA WAGGA TO LADYSMITH
RAIL TRAIL Author: Scott
Gray Director: Peter Thompson Summary: Council has
  received the attached petition from landowners strongly objecting to the
  development of the Wagga Wagga to Ladysmith Rail Trail through their
  properties. Recommendation That
  Council receive and note the attached petition. Report Council has
received the attached online petition from Mr Daryl Schipp, containing 16
signatories. The petition was sent to the General Manager on the 24 September
2021 and has been submitted in accordance with POL 086 Petitions Management
Policy. The petition
strongly objects to the concept of a Wagga Wagga to Ladysmith Rail Trail, and
has been received in response to the decision of Council from the 27 July 2021
Council Meeting where it was resolved: That Council: a       receive
and note the attached petition b       reaffirm
its support (as previously adopted in October 2016, February 2014 and February
2008) for the Wagga Wagga to Ladysmith Rail Trail concept to enable interested
parties to make submissions for grant funding c        approach
State and Federal Governments regarding their current position in relation to
rail trails d       undertake
a community consultation process with a view to identifying a pathway to pursue
a rail trail in the Wagga Wagga Local Government Area (LGA); acknowledging the
current active travel plan network e       receive
a further report back to Council prior to 30 April 2022 outlining responses to
part (c) and (d) of this resolution The Mayor
recently met with representatives from the State Government who provided the
following key points for considering rail trail proposals in NSW: · The NSW Government
supports rail trails on disused rail lines where there is overwhelming
community support, a viable business model in place, and biosecurity and land
access issues have been addressed. · All rail trail projects
also require an amendment of the Transport Administration Act 1988 to close the
disused rail line. · Any rail trail
project must meet all NSW Government criteria and have secured full capital
funding before work would progress to close the rail line. Staff are in
the process of planning face to face consultation with landowners to gain a
better understanding of their concerns in relation to possible future rail
trail developments. This petition will form part of the community consultation
section when a report is presented back to Council early next year. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation POL 086
Petitions Management Policy Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We are informed
and involved in decision making Outcome: Everyone in our
community feels they have been heard and understood Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation N/A Attachments 1 ⇩ . Wagga Wagga to Ladysmith Rail Trail -
  Petition against Rail Trail Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 RP-8 RP-9 Delegations during the election
period Author: Peter
Thompson Summary: In 2016 the NSW Government changed
  the Local Government Act to remove elected members from exercising any
  functions of the elected body from the date of the ordinary election until
  the date when the first meeting of the new Council is held. The change only
  applies to Councils where the Mayor is elected by Councillors which includes
  Wagga. In our case it means no elected member will exercise the functions of
  the elected body in the period between 4 December 2021 to the 10 January
  2022. The purpose of this report is to recommend that Council delegate these
  functions to one of the elected members for the period 4 December 2021 to 10
  January 2022. Recommendation That
  Council: a       delegate
  to [insert name] the functions of the role of mayor as described in s226 from
  4 December 2021 until the first meeting of the Council elected at the 4
  December 2021 election b       confirms
  that the delegation described in (a) shall cease when a Mayor is elected at
  the first meeting of the newly elected Council c        confirms
  that this delegation shall be limited by the restrictions on delegations
  identified in s377 of the Local Government Act 1993 Report When the
current Local Government Act commenced in 1993 it included a section which
prescribed the term of office of mayor. It prescribed that the term of
office of a mayor ends when their successor is elected to that office. For over a
quarter of a century this provision was applied according to its terms at all
local government authorities across the State. The key significance of the
provision is that the Local Government tier of government is never without an
elected member exercising the roles and functions of the elected
body. This all makes sense as Local Government, like all other tiers of
government in Australia, is led by members of the community elected to office. While all Councillors cease to hold that civic
office on the day of the next occurring ordinary election, the provision in the
Act identified above made it clear that the civic office of mayor continued
until a successor is elected. In 2016, the NSW State Government amended the
Local Government Act (The Act). The amendment did not change the section which
provides that the civic office of the Mayor continues until a successor is
elected. That section remains the same and in accordance with s230 of the Act,
the term of Mayor still continues until a successor is elected. Unfortunately, the operation of s230 has been
disabled by an amendment made to a different section in the Act. The amendment
introduced a subclause to the section which deals with casual vacancies in the
civic office of councillor. The effect of the subclause is that any civic
office of Mayor elected by Councillors (i.e. 92 councils in the State) also
becomes vacant when the Mayor stops holding the civic office of Councillor.
This happens on the day of the ordinary election. For the remaining councils in
NSW with Mayors elected by popular vote there is no change, and those areas
continue to have an elected member at all times. For the other 92 councils, the change means
that there is no person elected at an ordinary election performing the
functions of the elected body between the date of the election and the first
meeting of the new Council. This change has caught councils by surprise. It
is fair to say that there is outrage across many local government areas that
the NSW State Government could remove the elected membership of local
government in the way it has been done. The NSW Government has so far steadfastly
refused to reverse the change. The reasons for this position include the
following: If the view were to be taken that mayors elected by
councillors should continue to hold their office as mayor until their successor
is elected at the first meeting after the ordinary election, even where that
person ceases to hold elected office in the Council at the election, this leads
to a range of perverse outcomes. It would potentially allow a person who was
not re-elected as a councillor at an ordinary election to: · Exercise any functions delegated to the mayor by the
previous council · Exercise the policy making functions of the council in
cases of necessity (section 226) · Preside as chair of the first meeting of the council until
a new mayor is elected and It is not relevant to this report to explore
the merit of these reasons or the claim that they are perverse outcomes. The Office of Local Government (OLG) have
confirmed that Council has a power of delegation which can be used to delegate
the functions of the role of Mayor to the current Mayor between the date of the
election and the date of the first meeting of the new Council (copy of the OLG
commentary is attached). Indeed, this delegation can be given to any person
whatsoever. Reconciling this position with the OLG’s
first perverse outcome of a mayor elected by councillors continuing to hold
civic office, as identified in the first bullet point above is also beyond the
scope of this report and the abilities of the author. The purpose of this report is to recommend that
Council delegate the role and functions of Mayor to one of your number to be
exercised between the date of the ordinary election and the first meeting of
Council. While the OLG recommends this delegation be given
to the General Manager, it is the author’s view that this is not
appropriate. The Local Government Act has been crafted to
recognise the role of elected members and the separate and distinct role of the
bureaucracy. This distinction has a democratic pedigree that should not be
disrupted. Financial Implications The
recommendation includes delegating powers, authorities, duties or functions
with potential financial implications, including the incurring of expenditure,
between 4 December 2021 and 10 January 2022. It is not
proposed that any payment will be made to the person holding the delegation. Policy and Legislation Local Government
Act 1993 (NSW) Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council If an
individual exercises functions which mirror the functions of the mayor (without
being elected as a councillor) after the ordinary election, this would mean a
person not elected to Council could exercise significant functions including,
in cases of necessity, policy-making functions of Council. Internal / External
Consultation This item was
raised with the Audit, Risk and improvement Committee at their meeting on 7
October 2021. The Chairperson Report notes that, whilst it was beyond the scope
of the Committee to fully consider the matter, discussion from members
indicated concern with practices that are contrary to good governance. The
discussion included concerns in relation to any proposal that delegations be
exercised by those who are not a council official in particular. Consultation
was also undertaken with Office of Local Government NSW, LGNSW and Riverina
Joint Organisation. Attachments 1 ⇩ . OLG Circular - Pre-Election Guide for
  Councils Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 RP-9 Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021 RP-10 RP-10 RESOLUTIONS AND NOTICES OF MOTIONS
REGISTERS Author: Ingrid
Hensley Director: Peter Thompson Summary: This report
  provides Councillors with an update on the status of all resolutions of
  Council including Notices of Motion. Recommendation That Council receive and note the
  following registers: a       active
  Resolutions as at 20 October 2021 b       active
  Notice of Motions as at 20 October 2021 c        resolutions
  including Notice of Motions completed from 21 September 2021 to 20 October
  2021 Report The attached
registers, outline details of each resolution with the following analysis
provided as a snapshot as at October 2021: · 71 Active
resolutions · 13 Active Notices
of Motions · 18 resolutions
including Notice of Motions have been completed from 21 September 2021 to 20
October 2021 Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation Council’s
Code of Meeting Practice Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We are informed
and involved in decision making Outcome: Everyone in our
community feels they have been heard and understood Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation N/A Attachments 1 . Active Resolution Register - October
  2021 - Provided under separate cover 2 . Active Notice of Motions - October 2021
  - Provided under separate cover 3 ⇩ . Completed Resolutions - October 2021 -
  Provided under separate cover Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 RP-11 RP-11 RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS/BUSINESS WITH
NOTICE Author: Scott
Gray General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: This report
  provides responses to Questions/Business with Notice arising from previous
  Ordinary Council Meetings. Recommendation That
  Council receive and note the report. Report The following is in response to Questions/Business with
Notice raised at the 27 September 2021 Ordinary Council meeting. Councillor D
  Hayes requested a detailed status update on Council
  resolution 20/0065 relating to traffic related matters, in particular, the
  workshop brief and outcomes of research undertaken on traffic committee
  models of other local government areas. The responsibility for this Notice of Motion has been
  re-assigned to the Director Infrastructure Services. A meeting has been
  scheduled between the Director and Councillor Hayes to discuss the status of
  the Notice of Motion.  Councillors will be informed of the outcomes of
  the meeting via the Councillor Bulletin. Councillor D
  Hayes requested a detailed status update on Council resolution 19/372
  relating to the review of Bourke Street including a concept plan,
  responsibilities and community engagement. The responsibility for this Notice of Motion has been re-assigned
  to the Director Infrastructure Services. A meeting has been scheduled between
  the Director and Councillor Hayes to discuss the status of the Notice of
  Motion. Councillors will be informed of the outcomes of the meeting via the
  Councillor Bulletin. The following
is in response to Questions/Business with Notice raised at the 11 October 2021
Ordinary Council meeting. Councillor T Koschel requested advice on notification provisions for
  Development Applications, in particular provisions relating to
  neighbouring properties. Notification provisions for Development Applications
  including provisions relating to neighbouring properties Council’s Notification Policy with regard to the
  assessment and determination of Development Applications is contained at
  Section 1.10 of the Wagga Wagga Development Control Plan (DCP) 2010. For the
  information of Councillors, a link to the relevant section of the DCP 2010 is
  provided below. https://wagga.nsw.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0018/112248/ECM_2089515_v21_Version-Control-Project-Wagga-Wagga-DCP-2010-as-amended-Section-1-General-Version-23.pdf The provisions of this section of the DCP 2010 set the
  minimum level for neighbour and stakeholder notification. The provisions of
  Section 1.10 are best described as a 4 step process as detailed below. Step 1 - Development
  not requiring notification (or advertising) Development identified under this part of Section 1.10
  does not require notification (or advertising) by virtue of its low
  environmental impact and includes: · Single storey residential dwellings and alterations and
  additions (compliant with DCP and LEP provisions). · Outbuildings in association with existing dwellings not
  on flood prone land or within the heritage conservation area. · Outbuildings/farm buildings on rural zoned land (not flood
  prone or heritage listed) · Minor temporary events · Minor signage The notification requirements for development that falls
  outside of Step 1 is then determined as per the provisions of Tables 1 and 2
  as follows. The tables are to be read in order – i.e. if the proposal
  falls within both tables then table 1 is the relevant table. Step 2 – Table
  1 Table 1 identifies the notification and advertising
  requirements for the following types of development: · Heritage sites and Conservation area · Prohibited Developments · Existing uses · Alterations and additions · Special Purpose Zone development · Natural Waterways and Recreational Waterway Zone
  development · Subdivision · High impact telecommunication facilities · Extension hours of operation - licenced premises · Rural Fire Shed An excerpt from this table follows. The extent of notification to adjoining owners is
  determined as either Type A or Type B as described below: If the development is not covered in Table 1,
  notification requirements are determined by Table 2 as follows. Step 3 – Table
  2 This table covers all of the land use definitions
  contained within the dictionary of the Wagga Wagga local Environmental Plan
  (LEP) 2010 and identifies the notification requirements for the development
  depended on what zone it is located within.  The following in an excerpt
  of the table demonstrating its format. For example, the requirements for an
  animal boarding establishment proposed within the RU1 Primary Production zone
  is identified in the red circle – code YB14.  The codes are
  explained in the key the table Step 4 –
  Officer discretion There may be occasions when these minimum provisions
  outlined above are increased at the discretion of the Council, taking into
  account the specific circumstances of the application and the possible impact
  of an application. Section 1.10 also outlines the procedures for advertising
  and notification as summarised below. Advertised Procedures Changes to legislation now require Council to advertise development
  via its website as opposed to publishing within a locally circulated
  newspaper.  In addition to this, a site notification sign is placed on
  site providing details of the development during the notification period. Notification procedures Notification letters are sent by Australia Post service
  to the current landowners of the affected properties (as determined above
  – Type A or B). \ Letters are also sent to “the occupier”
  of the property in the event that this is not the landowner. Section 1.10 also details requirements for multi-tenanted
  properties including strata title and community title. Councillor R Kendall requested an update on Council’s intention to proceed with the suspended
  removal of suckers on Lake Albert’s foreshore. Council staff have not identified a viable option for the
  removal of the suckers from Lake Albert at the current water levels. Staff
  will continue to investigate and liaise with the State authorities to
  identify a solution that will enable long term solutions given constraints
  under current conditions. Councillor D Hayes requested an update the proposal for billboards at
  the entrances to the City and improved signage to the CBD. City signage and promotion of the City at external key
  locations is planned for further consideration in early 2022. Councillor K Pascoe requested an update on the status of slashing and
  mowing of the levee banks in North Wagga. Slashing and mowing of the North Wagga levee has been
  scheduled to commence the week commencing 25 October 2021. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation Code of Meeting
Practice Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We have leaders
that represent us Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation N/A Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 M-1 Committee
Minutes M-1 CONFIRMATION OF MINUTES AUDIT, RISK AND
IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE - 7 October 2021 and ARIC Annual Report Author: Ingrid
Hensley General Manager: Peter
Thompson Summary: The Audit,
  Risk and Improvement Committee is an advisory committee of Council. This
  Report seeks that Council endorse the recommendations made by the Committee
  at its October 2021 meeting. Those recommendations relate to the role of the
  Committee in providing independent assurance and assistance to Council on
  financial reporting, risk management, internal controls, governance, and
  internal and external audit and accountability responsibilities. Recommendation That
  Council: a       endorse
  the recommendations contained in the minutes of the Audit, Risk and
  Improvement Committee Meeting held on 7 October 2021 b       receive
  and note the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Annual Report 2020-21 Report The minutes
of the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting held on 7 October 2021 are
presented to Council for adoption. After each ARIC
meeting the Chairperson includes a report in the Councillor Bulletin, to allow
a timely overview and commentary of key areas of the meeting prior to the
consideration of the minutes Council. The summary of this meeting will be
included in the Councillor Bulletin on 15 October 2021. In relation to the
Financial Statements 2019/20, this is also separately considered as part of
that Report. Audit, Risk
and Improvement Committee Annual Report Council’s
Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Charter requires the Committee to report
regularly, and at least annually, to Council on the management of risk and
internal controls, including: · A
summary of the work the Committee performed to discharge its responsibilities
during the preceding year; and · Details
of meetings, including the number of meetings held during the relevant period,
and the number of meetings each member attended The Audit, Risk and
Improvement Committee tables the attached Annual Report 2020-2021 to Council
for noting. The Report was considered by the Committee at its August 2021
meeting. Financial Implications Council has
granted certain authorities to the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee within
the scope of its role and responsibilities, as defined within its Charter. As
an advisory committee to Council, the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee has
no authority to action items that may have a budget and/or resource implication
outside of this authority unless Council resolves to adopt the recommendations. The Reports to
the Committee considered financial implications as applicable to those
individual matters. At this meeting
the Committee considered the 2020/21 Financial Statements. Policy and Legislation Audit, Risk and
Improvement Committee Charter Link to Strategic Plan Community Leadership and
Collaboration Objective: We have strong leadership Outcome: We are accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council The Audit, Risk
and Improvement Committee assists Council by monitoring its risk exposure and
determining if management systems have appropriate risk management processes in
place. Internal / External
Consultation The
Chairperson’s report on the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting
held on 19 August 2021 was provided to Councillors in Councillors Bulletin on 3
September 2021. Attachments 1 . ARIC Annual Report 2020-21 - Provided under separate
  cover 2 ⇩ . Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting Minutes 7
  October 2021 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 M-1 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 M-2 M-2 Local Traffic Committee -
Electronic Meeting - 9 September 2021 Author: Warren
Faulkner Summary: The Local Traffic Committee were
  provided with an electronic business paper on 7 September 2021 as part of
  their planned ordinary meeting scheduled for 9 September 2021 and asked to
  provide comment and/or feedback on the Council officer recommendations presented. The Minutes
  for this electronic meeting are attached for Councillors’ reference. Committee Recommendation That
  Council: a       receive
  the minutes of the Local Traffic Committee Meeting held on 9 September 2021 b       install
  NO PARKING zone for 15m either side of the driveways to Lot 1 DP 285846 that
  service 320-350 Copland Street, East Wagga c        install
  time restricted ½ hour parking in five car parking bays adjacent to
  number 68 Fernleigh Road in the Turvey Tops Shopping complex Report The Traffic
Committee received an electronic business paper that included two reports, both
of which were formal matters requiring Council consideration. A summary of each
report is as follows. RP-1
PROPOSED NO PARKING ZONES IN FRONT OF 320-350 COPLAND STREET, EAST WAGGA WAGGA Background The customer in
this matter is the work health and safety officer for and on behalf of Royans,
the business which occupies 330-340 Copland Street who raised the following
concerns with Council’s Traffic Section via email; “Royans Truck & Trailer
Repairs…would like to request Wagga Wagga Council to help us keep our
workers and customers safe and members of the public. Due to trucks and
trailers being parked along the street which are not from us it has obscured
the view on driving out of our driveway causing several near misses. We
actually had a very close one last week one of our foreman nearly got hit by a
truck. We have asked one of the companies not to park there trucks to close and
they understood but then some else just goes and parks there. Currently we have
to slowly creep up and make a run for it. So we would like the Wagga Wagga
Council to consider implementing some kind of parking restriction. We are happy
to be flexible and even have no parking in business hours between the hours of
7am-6pm Mon-Fri.” Comment Traffic
Officers met with the customer on site to discuss the concerns raised and to
identify possible solutions. The most appropriate solution agreed upon was to
restrict parking for 15 metres on either side of each driveway by the
installation of RS-40 series No Parking signs as depicted in the diagram. RP-2
PROPOSED HALF HOUR PARKING ADJOINING 68 FERNLEIGH ROAD IN THE TURVEY TOPS
SHOPPING COMPLEX Background The operator of
the Turvey Tops newsagency has requested council consider half hour time
restricted parking for the five parking bays that front the newsagent and post
office on the western side of the Turvey Tops Shopping centre carpark. These
parking bays are currently unrestricted, and vehicles are parked for extended
periods to access the neighbouring hotel and shopping complex, both of which
are serviced by the Turvey Tops carpark. Vehicles are often parked for lengthy
periods during weekdays and all day on weekends after vehicles have been left
overnight and retrieved late the following day. Comment The nature of
these businesses is reliant on regular turnover and the installation of time
restricted parking in this location is consistent with recent decisions in respect
of similar business operations at other locations in the city. The
recommendation would require installation of the following signs R5-1-1L and
R5-1-1-R depicting the words ½ P 6am-6pm Mon-Sat as depicted in the
diagrams. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation Transport Administration Act 1998 –
Delegations to Councils, regulation of traffic TfNSW – A guide to the delegation to
Councils for the regulation of traffic Australian Standards Link to Strategic Plan Community Leadership
and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council The intended purpose of this report is to safely manage a risk issue
that has been identified and that is detailed in both reports. Internal / External
Consultation Consultation
was undertaken by both applicants in both matters. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Local Traffic Committee Meeting - 9
  September 2021 - Minutes Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 M-2 Reports submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council to be held on Monday 25 October 2021 . QUESTIONS/BUSINESS WITH
NOTICE Report
  submitted to the Confidential
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 CONF-1 Confidential
Reports CONF-1 RFT2022-03 DUKE OF KENT COMMUNITY BUILDING
DESIGN & CONSTRUCT Author: Rupesh
Shah Director: Scott
Barber This report is CONFIDENTIAL in
accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act 1993, which permits
the meeting to be closed to the public for business relating to the following:
- (d) (i)     commercial
information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed, prejudice the
commercial position of the person who supplied it. Report
  submitted to the Confidential
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 CONF-2 CONF-2 FITNESS GYM, OASIS AQUATIC CENTRE - EXPRESSION
OF INTEREST Author: David
Bolton Director: Michael
Keys This report is CONFIDENTIAL in
accordance with Section 10A (2) of the Local Government Act 1993, which permits
the meeting to be closed to the public for business relating to the following:
- (d) (i)     commercial
information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed, prejudice the
commercial position of the person who supplied it; and (d) (ii)    commercial
information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed, confer a
commercial advantage on a competitor of the Council. Report
  submitted to the Confidential
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 CONF-3 CONF-3 RFT2022-04 CONCRETE CRUSHING
SERVICES Author: Darryl
Woods Director: Michael Keys This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act
1993, which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business
relating to the following: - (d)
(i)     commercial information of a confidential nature
that would, if disclosed, prejudice the commercial position of the person who
supplied it. Report
  submitted to the Confidential
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 CONF-4 CONF-4 Proposed Acquisition of Land - Part
6318 Olympic Highway, Uranquinty, being part Lot 1 DP 1068577 Author: Matthew
Dombrovski Director: Michael Keys This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act 1993,
which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business relating to
the following: - (d)
(ii)    commercial information of a confidential nature that
would, if disclosed, confer a commercial advantage on a competitor of the
Council. Report
  submitted to the Confidential
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 CONF-5 CONF-5 Proposed Acquisition of Land - Cnr
Pine Gully Road and Old Narrandera Road, Gobbagombalin, being Part Lot 450 DP
1271227 Author: Matthew
Dombrovski Director: Michael Keys This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act
1993, which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business
relating to the following: - (d)
(ii)    commercial information of a confidential nature that
would, if disclosed, confer a commercial advantage on a competitor of the
Council. Report
  submitted to the Confidential
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 CONF-6 CONF-6 Proposed Grazing Licence - Little Burrundana,
43 Livingstone State Forrest Road - Part Lot 1 DP 803622 Author: Matthew
Dombrovski Director: Michael Keys This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act
1993, which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business
relating to the following: - (d)
(i)     commercial information of a confidential nature
that would, if disclosed, prejudice the commercial position of the person who
supplied it. Report
  submitted to the Confidential
  Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October
  2021 CONF-7 CONF-7 INDOOR RECREATION FACILITY, BOLTON PARK
STADIUM - EXPRESSION OF INTEREST Author: David
Bolton Director: Michael
Keys This report is CONFIDENTIAL in
accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act 1993, which permits
the meeting to be closed to the public for business relating to the following:
- (d) (ii)    commercial
information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed, confer a
commercial advantage on a competitor of the Council; and (d) (iii)   commercial
information of a confidential nature that would, if disclosed, reveal a trade
secret. Report submitted to the Confidential Meeting of Council on Monday 25 October 2021. CONF-8 CONF-8 CONTAINER DEPOSIT SCHEME (CDS) -
REFUND SHARING ARRANGEMENT Author: Scott
Gray Director: Peter Thompson This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act
1993, which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business
relating to the following: - (d)
(i)     commercial information of a confidential nature
that would, if disclosed, prejudice the commercial position of the person who
supplied it. Reports submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council to be held on Monday 25 October 2021 .