Agenda of Ordinary Meeting of Council - Monday, 11 April 2022 Agenda
and Business Paper Ordinary Meeting of Council To be held on Monday 11
April 2022 at 6:00pm Civic Centre cnr Baylis and Morrow Streets, Wagga Wagga NSW 2650 (PO Box 20) P 1300 292 442 P council@wagga.nsw.gov.au wagga.nsw.gov.au NOTICE OF MEETING The proceedings of all Council meetings in open session,
including all debate and addresses by the public, are recorded (audio visual)
and livestreamed on Council’s website including for the purpose of
facilitating community access to meetings and accuracy of the Minutes. In addition to webcasting council meetings, audio
recordings of confidential sessions of Ordinary Meetings of Council are also
recorded, but do not form part of the webcast. Mr Peter Thompson General Manager WAGGA WAGGA CITY COUNCILLORS Mayor Councillor
  Dallas Tout Deputy Mayor Councillor
  Jenny McKinnon Councillor
  Georgie Davies Councillor
  Richard Foley Councillor
  Dan Hayes Councillor
  Michael Henderson Councillor
  Rod Kendall Councillor
  Tim Koschel Councillor
  Amelia Parkins QUORUM The quorum for a
meeting of the Council is a majority of the Councillors of the Council who hold
office for the time being who are eligible to vote at the meeting. COUNCIL MEETING ROOM Reports submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council to be held on Monday 11 April 2022 . Ordinary Meeting of Council AGENDA AND BUSINESS PAPER Monday 11 April 2022 ORDER OF BUSINESS: CLAUSE               PRECIS                                                                                       PAGE PRAYER 3 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF
COUNTRY 3 APOLOGIES 3 Confirmation
of Minutes CM-1           ORDINARY
COUNCIL MEETING - 21 MARCH 2022 3 DECLARATIONS OF
INTEREST 4 Motions
Of Which Due Notice Has Been Given NOM-1         NOTICE
OF MOTION - VETERAN'S EMPLOYMENT AT WAGGA WAGGA CITY COUNCIL 5 Reports
from Staff RP-1            DA21/0604
- MULTI LEVEL COMMERICAL OFFICE & CAR PARK, LOT 7 DP 203835, LOT 1 DP
375748 AND LOT A DP 331461, 199-205 MORGAN STREET, WAGGA WAGGA, AND ADJACENT
MORGAN STREET ROAD RESERVE 7 RP-2            WAGGA
WAGGA CITY COUNCIL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO RICHMOND TWEED REGIONAL LIBRARY
SERVICE 13 RP-3            CORPORATE
NET ZERO EMISSIONS 2040 STRATEGY 15 RP-4            RESPONSE
TO PETITION BY CLIMATE RESCUE OF WAGGA INC, CLIMATE ACTION WAGGA AND WAGGA
WAGGA FRIDAYS FOR FUTURE ON COMMUNITY NET ZERO EMISSIONS 25 RP-5            RESPONSE
TO NOTICE OF MOTION - COMMUNITY NET ZERO EMISSIONS TARGET 28 RP-6            LAND
SALES - RIFL INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISION 36 RP-7            ACQUISITION,
DISPOSAL AND MANAGEMENT OF LAND POLICY 40 RP-8            RELINQUISHMENT
OF EASEMENT - 34 KOORINGAL ROAD, EAST WAGGA WAGGA 58 RP-9            FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE REPORT AS AT 31 MARCH 2022 63 RP-10          COUNCILLORS
AND MAYORAL REMUNERATION - LOCAL GOVERNMENT AMENDMENT BILL 2021 97 RP-11          REQUESTS
FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 118 RP-12          ADDITIONAL
SPECIAL VARIATION (ASV) PROCESS FOR 2022/23 124 RP-13          COUNCILLORS'
WRITTEN RETURNS OF INTEREST 127 RP-14          RESPONSE
TO QUESTIONS/BUSINESS WITH NOTICE 167 Committee
Minutes M-1              CONFIRMATION
OF MINUTES AUDIT, RISK AND IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE - 24 February 2022 and
mid-year report for 2021-22 170 QUESTIONS/BUSINESS
WITH NOTICE 181 Confidential
Reports CONF-1       EXPRESSION
OF INTEREST - RIVERSIDE FOOD VAN 182 CONF-2       EXPRESSION
OF INTEREST - SALE OF LAND AT COORADOOK STREET, NORTH WAGGA WAGGA 183 CONF-3       APPOINTMENT
OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEMBERS 184 PRAYER Almighty God, Help protect our Mayor, elected Councillors and staff. Help Councillors to govern with justice, integrity, and
respect for equality, to preserve rights and liberties, to be guided by wisdom
when making decisions and settling priorities, and not least of all to preserve
harmony. Amen. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF
COUNTRY Wagga Wagga City
Council acknowledges the traditional custodians of the land, the Wiradjuri
people, and pays respect to Elders past, present and future and extends our
respect to all First Nations Peoples in Wagga Wagga. We recognise and respect their cultural
heritage, beliefs and continuing connection with the land and rivers. We also
recognise the resilience, strength and pride of the Wiradjuri and First Nations
communities APOLOGIES Confirmation
of Minutes CM-1 ORDINARY COUNCIL MEETING - 21 MARCH
2022 Recommendation That the
  Minutes of the proceedings of the Ordinary Council Meeting held on 21 March
  2022 be confirmed as a true and accurate record. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Minutes - 21 March 2022 185 DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 NOM-1 Motions
Of Which Due Notice Has Been Given NOM-1 NOTICE OF MOTION - VETERAN'S
EMPLOYMENT AT WAGGA WAGGA CITY COUNCIL Author: Councillor
Dan Hayes Summary: Notice of
  Motion by Councillor Dan Hayes requesting that Council consider how
  improvements may be made by Council to enhance its ability to attract
  veterans to apply and for a range of job vacancies. Recommendation That
  Council: a       receive
  a report detailing improvements to our recruitment processes, job vacancy
  notifications, website, and post application support with the aim to attract
  veterans to apply for positions at our Council b       invite
  councils in the Riverina Joint Organisation and Canberra Joint Organisation
  to also consider improving their recruitment process to better attract
  veterans to job opportunities Report Each year approximately 6000 Australians leave the Australian Defence
Force. These veterans have a set of skills and abilities that are transferable
to the civilian workforce. However, transitioning from military life can
present hurdles for some veterans, but employers such as Wagga Wagga City
Council can help reduce those barriers. The NSW Veterans Employment Program which is focused on NSW Government
employment have worked with a small number of local councils to adapt their
processes and information for council roles. Some of the strategies used
include: · Asking about
identifying previous service on applications as to not only measure whether we
are attracting veterans to apply but provide either support and training if
successful in the job, or feedback afterwards if requested. · Rank to Grade
Guide which outlines the requirements of council roles and how veterans’
military experience can fulfil these needs at all employment levels. · Feedback to
unsuccessful candidates upon request is a council commitment to assist veterans
in improving their applications and interviews. · Linking the
veteran with training programs which will help upskill them in the role they
are employed to. Some, if not all, of these initiatives are able to be easily implemented.
They can also be adjusted to suit our region. It is important to note that his
is not about creating formal identifiable positions as representatives of the
veteran community have clearly stated this is a handout that is not needed or
wanted. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation Code of Meeting
Practice Link to Strategic Plan Growing
Economy Objective: We have
employment opportunities Outcome: We have career
opportunities Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation N/A Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-1 Reports
from Staff RP-1 DA21/0604 - MULTI LEVEL COMMERICAL
OFFICE & CAR PARK, LOT 7 DP 203835, LOT 1 DP 375748 AND LOT A DP 331461, 199-205
MORGAN STREET, WAGGA WAGGA, AND ADJACENT MORGAN STREET ROAD RESERVE Author: Paul
O’Brien General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: The report is
  for a Development Application and is presented to Council for determination.
  The Application has been referred to Council following a Councillor workshop
  on the Morgan Street / Forsyth Street precinct. The proposal
  is for a multi-level office and car park. The proposal includes: · 5 storeys of
  commercial office space, comprising 7595m 2 of GFA and 6730m 2 of net lettable office space. · 6 storeys of car
  parking accessed off Docker Street (with left-in and left-out access only). · Works within the
  Morgan Street road reserve for parking. · 514 parking spaces
  across the site, including 484 car, 20 motorcycle and 10 bicycle spaces. 13
  of these spaces are to be provided in the Morgan Street road reserve adjacent
  to the site. · Landscaping The proposed
  building is to be 19.8m from ground level to the top of the roof level. A
  roof plant zone is proposed to extend a further 2.4m above the roof level. The
  development is permitted with consent under the Wagga Wagga Local
  Environmental Plan 2010 in the B4 zone. 45
  submissions were received in total during exhibition. 35 by way of support, 9
  by way of objection, and 1 that explicitly states that it is not an
  objection, but raises matters that are sought to be addressed. The merits
  assessment of the proposal has determined that the development is generally
  consistent with the Wagga Wagga Local Environmental Plan 2010 and the Wagga
  Wagga Development Control Plan 2010 (including height controls), that the
  impacts of the development are acceptable, and that subject to conditions,
  the development is acceptable in this location. A full
  assessment of the Development Application is contained within the attached
  Section 4.15 Assessment Report. Recommendation That
  Council approve DA21/0604 subject to the conditions outlined in the Section
  4.15 Assessment Report. Development
Application Details Applicant Manuel Donebus, Damasa Pty, Ltd Owner Damasa Pty Ltd – Directors listed below: · Daniel
  Cark Donebus · Sandra
  Maria Weston · Manuel
  John Donebus Development Cost $25,500,000 Development Description A 19.8m high (with addition 2.4m
  roof plant zone) office and car park building. The building includes 5
  stories of commercial office space (7595m 2 of GFA and 6730m 2 of net lettable office space) and 6 stories of car parking (501 parking
  spaces). A further 13 new parking spaces are proposed adjacent to the site in
  the Morgan Street road reserve. Report Key Issues · Traffic and access · Overland flooding · Impacts on character of
the area · Submissions · Tree removal Site Location The site
subject to the Development Application is Lot 7 DP 203835, Lot 1 DP 375748 and
Lot A DP 331461, 199-205 Morgan Street, Wagga Wagga. Works are also proposed in
the adjacent road reserve of Morgan Street to provide additional parking. The site is
located on the north-eastern corner of Docker Street and Morgan Street,
approximately 300m north of Edward Street. Combined the
site has a total area of over 5600m 2 . To the north,
west and south of the site residential uses, including single dwellings and
multi-unit developments prevail. To the southwest is an area of open space. Land to the
east and northeast is used for a range of commercial purposes, including
retail, medical and office space. A four storey commercial building stands on
land immediately to the east. Assessment · The
site is zoned B4 Mixed Use under the provisions of the WWLEP 2010. The adjacent
road reserve is zoned R1 General Residential. · The
development is permitted with consent in the B4 zone. Car parking is permitted
with consent in the R1. · The
development complies with the controls of the WWLEP 2010 including in relation
to building height. · The
development complies with the numerical controls and objectives of the WWDCP
2010, including compliance in relation to building height, car parking, and the
site-specific controls for the Morgan Street / Forsyth Street precinct. · The
development is non-complaint with one non-numerical control of the WWDCP 2010,
being C1 of Section 2.1. This control states that “ Access should be
from an alternative secondary frontage or other non-arterial road where
possible”. Docker Street is a local arterial road. Whilst access is
proposed off Docker Street, rather than Morgan Street, it is considered that
Docker Street is an acceptable location for access and will ensure better
traffic management across the site and wider network. The alternative of
providing access off Morgan Street would provide an unacceptable load to the
existing intersection and require major upgrades for this development. · A
traffic impact assessment has demonstrated that the impacts of the development
on the local road network are acceptable, with level of services for
intersections essentially not impacted by this development. · Level
of service issues at the intersection of Morgan/Docker/Bolton Street are
because of a small number of vehicles making right hand turns from Morgan
Street and Bolton Street, or travelling through between Morgan Street and
Bolton Street. The proposed development will not increase the number of
vehicles making this manoeuvre, due to the left-in left-out only access to
Docker Street. · A
flood impact assessment indicated that the impacts of flooding on adjoining
properties as a result of this development are very minor, with Modelling
showing a maximum change in flood level from the base condition of up to 0.03
m, in the 10% AEP and up to 0.02m in the 1% AEP events. · The
flood study also showed that outside the stormwater channel proper and the
immediate surrounds, that the flood hazard on the site is H1 and H2 (the two
lowest categories) and concluded that flood hazard on the site would not be
significantly changed as a result of the proposed development. · Impacts
resulting from the proposal on surrounding development, such as from
overshadowing and overlooking, are not considered to be significant. · 45
submissions were received in total during exhibition. 35 by way of support, 9
by way of objection, and 1 that explicitly states that it is not an objection
but raises matters that are sought to be addressed. Matters raised in
submissions include: Objections o Construction impacts (including
parking, noise, traffic and dust) o Impacts on amenity of area. o Out of character with area / height
of building / visual impact. o Negative traffic impacts / traffic
congestion / impact on Morgan-Docker Intersection. Support o Positive Design
(well considered, aesthetically pleasing, modern, improves character of area). o Supports Health
Precinct o Consistent with DCP
Masterplan. o Economic
development / positive economic impact / business attractor o Meets a need that
exists for more office space in the city. · Matters
raised in submissions have been considered in full and have been addressed via
conditions of consent where appropriate. Having regard
for the information contained in the attached Section 4.15 assessment report,
it is considered that the development is acceptable for the following reasons
and recommended for approval. Reasons for
Approval 1.      The
proposed development is consistent with the provisions of the Wagga Wagga Local
Environmental Plan 2010. 2.      The
proposed development is generally consistent with the objectives and controls
of the Wagga Wagga Development Control Plan 2010 and where a variation is
proposed, the variation is reasonable. 3.      The
development is consistent with the strategic intent for the site, as previously
supported by Council in the rezoning and DCP amendment process. 4.      Impacts
of the proposed development are acceptable and can be managed via the
recommended conditions of consent. Financial Implications N/A Policy Wagga Wagga
Local Environmental Plan 2010 Wagga Wagga
Development Control Plan 2010 Link to Strategic Plan The
Environment Objective: We plan for the
growth of the city Outcome: We have sustainable
urban development Risk Management Issues for
Council Refusal of the
application may result in an appeal process to the Land and Environment Court
which will have to be defended by Council. The reasons for refusal will have to
be justified and withstand scrutiny and cross examination in Court. Approval of the
application is not considered to raise risk management issues for Council as
the proposed development is generally consistent with LEP and DCP controls and
the proposed variation has been fully assessed and justified. Internal / External
Consultation Full details of
the consultation that was carried out as part of the development application
assessment is contained in the attached s4.15 Report. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news story Council News advert Media releases TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community
  meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult x x Involve Collaborate Attachments 1 . DA21/0604 - s4.15
  Assessment Report - Provided under separate cover 2 . DA21/0604 - Plans -
  Provided under separate cover 3 . DA21/0604 -
  Statement of Environmental Effects - Provided under separate cover 4 . DA21/0604 - Redacted
  Submissions - Provided under separate cover Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-2 RP-2 WAGGA WAGGA CITY COUNCIL FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE TO RICHMOND TWEED REGIONAL LIBRARY SERVICE Author: Janice
Summerhayes General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: The recent
  extreme weather events and resulting flooding in the Lismore area has
  impacted extensively on the Richmond Tweed Regional Library Services. As a
  gesture of support staff are recommending that Council donate $5,000 to the
  Richmond Tweed Regional Library Services. Recommendation That
  Council: a       donate
  $5,000 to the Richmond Tweed Regional Library Service to support their
  recovery efforts from the recent flooding event in the Lismore area b       fund
  the donation as detailed in the financial implications section of this report Report The recent
extreme weather events and resulting flooding in the Lismore area has impacted
extensively on the Richmond Tweed Regional Library Services. Whilst the State
Library is not able to provide emergency funds to public libraries, they are
however donating profits from a recent event towards flood affected Lismore and
associated- Richmond Tweed Regional Library Services. Staff are also aware that
the New South Wales Public Libraries Association (NSWPLA) Executive have moved
to provide support to the Richmond Tweed Regional Library Service (Lismore).
NSWPLA have donated an amount of $20,000 to the recovery fund. Further to the
State Library the Wagga Wagga City Library’s Program staff have been
sharing and promoting the Lismore Library’s Facebook post – “ Your
Library needs your help ” on our socials. It refers individuals and
other entities to the Richmond Tweed Regional Library website for the best ways
to help – financial and donations. There are a few
GoFundMe efforts to support north coast libraries and as a gesture to show our
support, staff are recommending that Council donate $5,000 to the Richmond
Tweed Regional Library Services which can go towards the purchase of new
library resources for the benefit of the communities living in the flood devastated
areas such as Lismore. Donations are
being directed to the Richmond Tweed Regional Library gift account. This donation,
alongside donations from others, values the important role that Libraries have
in supporting their local communities and further assists the recovery efforts
in those floods impacted communities. The budget for this donation is outlined
in the financial section of this report. Financial Implications It is proposed
to fund the $5,000 donation from the Mayoral and Civic Functions budget. 
This budget has current capacity due to the reduced number of functions this
financial year due to the COVID-19 pandemic and restrictions on events. Policy and Legislation N/A Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We are active
community members Outcome: We recognise we
all have a role to play Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation Internal
consultation with Executive and Library services staff. Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-3 RP-3 CORPORATE NET ZERO EMISSIONS 2040
STRATEGY Author: Carly
Hood Director: Janice Summerhayes Summary: This report
  discusses the draft Corporate Strategy which will outline how Council can
  reach the Corporate Net Zero Emission (NZE) by 2040 target set in April 2021. Recommendation That
  Council: a       endorse
  the draft Corporate Net Zero Emission 2040 Strategy to be placed on public
  exhibition for a period of 28 days b       receive
  a further report summarising feedback and submissions c        approve
  100% of the budgeted savings from the Power Purchase Agreement to be
  allocated to the Net Zero Emission Reserve d       approve
  the budget variation/s as detailed in the Financial Implications section of
  the report Report Following
consultation with Councillors in February 2021 and a Council report in April
2021 Council resolved the following: That Council: a note the outcomes of the previous overarching target and additional sub-targets set for 2020 b adopt a Community Target for Net Zero Emissions by 2050 in line with the NSW Government c adopt a Corporate Target for Net Zero Emissions by 2040 and develop a strategy to achieve the Corporate Target d rename the Sustainable Energy Reserve as a Net Zero Emissions Reserve to fund future programs for carbon offsets e approve the budget variations as noted in the financial implications section of this report f write to relevant state and federal ministers and shadow ministers asking them to consider both i. installing renewable energy onto social housing ii. incentives for landlords to install renewable energy options on investment homes Council’s
emissions profile does not include a wide variety of carbon sources and sinks
such as existing trees on Council land, tree removal on Council land, closed
former landfills, waste collection trucks, employee travel, road making and
construction works etc which are mostly Scope 3 emissions. It is limited to the
current and material emissions from activities where Council has operational or
financial control over those activities or facilities. This includes emissions from: · Electricity · Gas · Fuel · Landfill
operation · Wastewater
treatment · Electricity
for Streetlighting Council’s
Corporate Emissions (see Figure 1 Profile below) total approximately 85,000
tonnes/CO 2 e and is largely made up of legacy and non-legacy landfill emissions resulting from decades of sending organic waste to landfill
prior to introducing kerbside Food Organics and Garden Organics (FOGO) in 2018. The next most
significant emissions source is from electricity used to operate our
facilities, and electricity for
streetlighting. The remaining categories (in descending order) are fuel for our
fleet of vehicles, gas for facilities, and emissions from wastewater. A forecast of
business as usual (BAU) out to 2040 for Council’s Corporate profile
accounts for negative impacts such as population growth (requiring more service provision), and positive impacts such
as grid de-carbonisation mean that emissions at 2040 would be very similar to
where they are now. Figure 1: Council Corporate Emissions profile The draft Corporate NZE 2040 Strategy
outlines a number of abatement focus areas across this profile to reduce
Council’s emissions. Abatement Focus Areas Landfill Landfill emissions are reported annually to
the Federal Government’s Clean Energy Regulator (CER) under the National
Greenhouse Emissions Reporting Scheme (NGERS). This accounts for both legacy
waste and non-legacy waste. The calculation is complex and is subject to change
on an annual basis by the CER, meaning that the emissions reported can change
by a few percent even with the same input of data, which is challenging when
creating emissions inventories. Emissions are created from organic
materials going into the landfill and degrading into various greenhouse gases
(predominantly methane) which are then reported as carbon dioxide equivalent
tonnes (tCO 2 e). Council has already taken significant steps
to reduce this by diverting kerbside food organics and garden organics (FOGO)
from landfill, and by capturing and flaring methane gas from within the closed
cells. This entitles Council to sell Australian Carbon Credit Units (ACCUs)
under the Emissions Reduction Fund (ERF). Further
abatement actions could include the following: · Increasing
the amount of FOGO diversion through education and further roll outs to
commercial premises · Retiring
the ACCUs generated · Turning
the landfill gas capture into energy rather than methane flaring · Increasing
landfill diversion of other organic materials such as textiles · Increased community education to avoid and reduce waste creation. Detailed
modelling can be undertaken to calculate what emissions are projected under
different removal scenarios and decay models to determine what reductions can
be achieved. A Waste Strategy (which may also include Circular Economy) for the
whole local government area could be developed to address emission reduction
targets and to achieve the targets within the NSW Waste and Sustainable
Materials Strategy 2041, which specifically aims to: · Reduce
total waste generated by 10% per person by 2030 · Have an
80% waste diversion from landfill by 2030 · 50%
reduction in organic waste sent to landfill by 2030. The NSW Waste
and Sustainable Materials Strategy also states that to minimise the impact of
landfill gas emissions, the NSW Government will require: · Separate
collection of food waste from targeted businesses and other entities that
generate the highest volumes of food waste, including large supermarkets and
hospitality businesses, by 2025 and · Net
zero emissions for landfills that are subject to an environment protection
licence by a prescribed timeframe. Recommendations · Develop
and implement a Waste & Circular Economy Strategy · Undertake
modelling of legacy and projected future emissions · Develop
programs that will reduce overall waste to landfill and maximise  
resource recovery · Implement
the proposed energy-from-landfill gas project · Retire
ACCUs generated from landfill projects · Participate
in NSW Government programs and funding opportunities. Funding
sources The NSW
Government has and will continue to release funding streams for emissions
reduction and waste reduction which will help Council in achieving these
targets. The Solid Waste Reserve also exists to serve this purpose. Electricity Council has
been carrying out a wide variety of energy efficiency and solar PV installation
projects over the last decade to reduce our electricity use. This has included: · Upgrade
of ~7,000 public streetlights to LED lights as well as several sports field
lights · Energy
efficiency measures for motors, pumps, air conditioning, heating and lighting
at the Civic Centre, Civic Theatre, Historic Council Chambers, Library, Art
Gallery, Airport, Livestock Marketing Centre, Tarcutta Truck Stop, Alan Turner
Depot, Botanic Gardens Depot, Bolton Park Stadium and the Oasis · Solar
PV installations totalling 235kW at the Civic Centre, Alan Turner Depot,
Livestock Marketing Centre, Glenfield Road Animal Shelter, Riverina Regional
Library, Senior Citizen’s Centre, Ashmont Community Hub, Glenfield
Community Centre, and the Visitor’s Information Centre. These have all
achieved savings towards Council’s electricity consumption, but with the
continued growth of the city and the additional infrastructure and facilities
being built to service and accommodate that growth emissions still remain high. In an effort to combat this Council
resolved in April 2021 the following: That Council: a. authorise
the General Manager or their delegate to commit Council to participate in the
LGP Tender process EL0121 for the Supply of Electricity (Renewable and Firming
Power) for the provision of electricity under a Power Purchase Agreement(s)
(PPA) b. authorise
the General Manager or their delegate to enter into a contract(s) for the
provision of electricity via a PPA, subject to LGP securing a supplier(s) the
Tender Evaluation Team believe is reflective of the market at that time from
the Tender EL0121 for the Supply of Electricity (Renewable and Firming Power) c. authorise
the affixing of Council’s Common Seal to all relevant documents as
required The PPA
contract was signed in November 2021 for electricity supply from 1 January 2023
– 31 December 2029 and includes: · Streetlighting
and Large Sites supplied by Iberdrola Australia and Small Sites supplied by
Origin Energy · The
Streetlighting and Large Sites will be 100% renewable energy from 2025 onwards · Small
Sites also have an option to be 100% renewable from 2025 onwards for an
additional $25,000 p/a (assuming no further energy efficiency is achieved). The PPA
contract rates (supply of electricity only- network charges are non-negotiable)
are projected to yield (assuming stable electricity consumption) approximately
$1.03M in savings compared to our 2021 rates, and approximately $3.59M against
what is budgeted for electricity in the Long Term Financial Plan. It is
recommended that the savings from the PPA contract be placed annually into the
Net Zero Emissions Reserve. The $ amount would be calculated annually at the
end of the financial year based on electricity consumption for each year of the
contract. In order to
achieve 100% abatement of our emissions from electricity, Council needs to take
up the option to buy renewable energy for our small sites. Recommendations · That Council transfer
100% of the savings from the PPA contract into the Net Zero Emissions Reserve.
The amount would be calculated annually based on electricity consumption for
each year of the contract. · Procure LGCs from 2025
onwards so that all electricity is 100% renewable energy · Continue to investigate
and implement energy efficiency projects · Continue to investigate
and implement solar PV and battery projects · Build new facilities to
a higher standard of energy efficiency. Funding
sources If the savings
from the PPA contract are allocated to the Net Zero Emissions Reserve as
recommended, the purchase cost for LGCs can be funded from there. Council could
also look to pursue further energy efficiency and solar PV opportunities to
reduce the amount of renewable energy that needs to be purchased. The Federal
Government and NSW Government have various grants that can be used to
supplement existing operational budgets that are routinely used to fund energy
projects. The savings from these projects can also then be allocated into the
NZE Reserve. Fleet Council has 173
vehicles in its fleet (109 classed as ‘light’ and 64 as
‘heavy’). To date, only one of these is an electric vehicle (EV).
Consultants were engaged to conduct a feasibility of transitioning the fleet to
zero emission vehicles (ZEV) over time. The feasibility looked at: · a BAU
scenario (no change), where the current electric vehicle and hybrid vehicles
would continue to be replaced with hybrid and electric (with a NPV of $20.06M) · a
Planned transition (cost based), where vehicles would only be transitioned to
hybrid or electric when the total cost of ownership (TCO) is favourable (NPV of
$20.58M), and · a
Leadership transition (technology based) where all vehicles would be transitioned
as soon as a fit for purpose ZEV is available for purchase (NPV of $22.40M). The Planned and
Leadership scenarios both require a phased roll out of additional charging
infrastructure to facilitate this change, which is included in the net present
value (NPV) figures above. While there are
still significant barriers to the uptake of EVs the transition is coming
rapidly, with almost all major car manufacturers now producing EVs and
committing to phase out internal combustion engine vehicles altogether. For the purpose
of the strategy the ‘Leadership Transition’ pathway is used to
model the carbon abatement opportunity to 2030 for Council, while recognising
that this may not be Council’s chosen approach. Recommendations · Implement
the ‘Planned Transition’ scenario based on the availability of
suitable vehicles and TCO price parity · Utilise
the various Government incentives currently available for fleet transitions and
charging infrastructure. Funding
sources This is
supported by the Federal Government’s Future Fuels and Vehicles Strategy
(and associated funding) and the NSW Government’s Electric Vehicle
Strategy and the various funding mechanisms associated with that. Council could
take the opportunity to utilise the funding available to kick start its
transition in a cost-effective manner, placing it somewhere slightly above the
‘Planned’ transition scenario but well below the
‘Leadership’ scenario. If Council wish to pursue the Leadership
transition scenario then additional funding of up to $2.52M (assuming no grant
funding) would be required over the next 10 years. Gas Gas represents
around 8% or Council’s energy profile and 2% of Council’s overall
emissions profile. Council has four large gas accounts, and a number of smaller
accounts at various facilities for hot water, heating, or cooking. The main
accounts are at the Oasis Aquatic Centre, the Crematorium, the Eternal Flame
and the Airport. Recommendations · Replace
all gas assets (except in the Crematorium and Eternal Flame) with electric as
assets reach end of life · Exclude
gas assets in new builds or upgrades. Funding
sources Where possible
Council can look to transition facilities to electricity as each asset reaches
end of life, or sooner if suitable grant funding is available. This is
anticipated to save Council money as well as reducing emissions and can be
funded from existing operational budgets. Wastewater Council is not
required to report our emissions from wastewater treatment under the NGERS.
There are a number of uncertainties in the estimation of emissions from
wastewater collection and treatment systems including the extent of methane
direct emissions and direct nitrous oxide emissions from treatment processes,
and these vary from plant to plant. The NSW Sewage Treatment Works Calculator
was used to estimate the emissions, and a very conservative estimate is that
emissions from Council’s seven treatment plants represents around 2% of
Council’s overall emissions profile. Recommendations · Improve
the data quality for wastewater emissions · Implement
any technologically and financially feasible emission reduction actions
identified. Funding
sources To accurately
capture this data and assess what opportunities exist for emissions reduction,
Council would need to commission a separate study. Actions deemed feasible and
worthwhile from that study would then be funded from the Sewer Reserve. Offsets
& Carbon sequestration It is extremely
challenging to avoid all greenhouse gas emissions, and Council will need to
purchase or create carbon offsets to compensate for the remaining emissions.
Depending on which abatement options are pursued and the success of those
measures, high level estimates indicate that Council could be left with
approximately 20-30,000 tCO 2 e to offset by 2040. There are many
different offsets available to purchase on the market. The most robust and
transparent of these (where the offsets are based in Australia) are Australian
Carbon Credit Units (ACCUs). The current ACCU price is $17/ tCO 2 e.
This would give an indicative cost of approximately $340,000 per year to reach
net zero emissions after abatement activities have been completed. Purchasing
ACCUs or other accredited carbon certificates is not the only way to offset
emissions. Sequestering
carbon through revegetation projects is a proven methodology that creates
offsets for a 25-year period. This approach may prove more cost effective than
purchasing offsets over the long term. It should also be noted that the option
to sequester carbon through tree planting also has one other very significant
co-benefit. It has the potential for Council to also meet the overarching
target in the Wagga Wagga Biodiversity Strategy: Maldhangilanha which aims to
increase the area of threatened native vegetation in the LGA by 10% (1,900ha)
by 2030. A full
feasibility study and plan for offsetting would be required to ensure thorough
research can inform robust decision making prior to any potential investment.
This should also consider as far as possible the net amount of vegetation
existing on Council land, accounting for additional plantings and removals over
time. Recommendations · Improve
data quality on net carbon levels for vegetation · Develop
a Carbon Offset Plan that considers feasibility of purchasing accredited
offsets and/or creating offsets through revegetation. Funding
sources The intent of
Council’s NZE Reserve is to fund this. The financial implications section
below shows the potential reserve amounts available if Council chooses to allocate
the savings from the PPA into the NZE Reserve. Monitoring
and review Staff will
report back on the Corporate NZE 2040 Strategy each year through the Community
Strategic Plan’s Annual Report, and a significant review of the Strategy
will take place in 2030 to evaluate and reaffirm Council’s progress and
the identified strategies to achieve NZE by 2040. Financial Implications As indicated in
the report there are numerous Federal and State Government grant opportunities
currently and proposed in the future to drive change in key focus areas and
meet the Governments NZE targets. These grants
should be pursued to supplement the existing funding that Council has available
in the following areas: · Solid Waste Reserve: $20.61M (Landfill
emissions) · Sewer Reserve: $27.78M (Wastewater
emissions) · Plant Replacement Reserve: $2.45M (Fleet
emissions) · NZE
Reserve: $150k (Electricity emissions and carbon offsets). The PPA
contract rates (supply of electricity only) are projected to yield (assuming
stable consumption) approximately $1.03M in savings compared to our 2021 rates,
and approximately $3.59M against what is budgeted for electricity expenditure
in the Long Term Financial Plan which uses a 7% indexation when preparing budget
estimates for electricity costs. The figures below are an estimate of
Council’s savings against this when compared to the pricing locked in for
the 7-year period of the PPA. It is
recommended that 100% of the savings from the PPA contract be placed annually
into the NZE Reserve. The amount would be calculated annually at the end of the
financial year based on electricity consumption for each year of the contract. As indicated previously the NZE Reserve would fund the cost of LGCs to
offset our small sites electricity consumption, develop a plan for carbon
offsets and partially fund future offset and sequestration projects. It is also
proposed that the NZE Reserve be used to fund a 4-year NZE Project Officer to
program and commence delivery of the actions needed to achieve NZE by 2040. NZE Reserve 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 LTFP budget PPA savings* 0 $299k $382k $377k $473k $576k $684k $803k Energy projects potential savings (estimated) 0 $30k $40k $40k $40k $40k $50k $50k Small  sites PPA offset cost 0 0 0 -$25k -$25k -$25k -$25k -$25k Carbon Offset Plan development 0 0 -$30k 0 0 0 0 0 NZE Project Officer cost -$55k -$85k -$85k -$85k 0 0 0 0 Reserve Total $95K $339K $646K $953K $1.44M $2.03M $2.74M $3.57M *Based on 100% of savings from PPA being transferred. If 100%
allocation of LTFP savings from the PPA is approved by Council as per the
recommendation, this will significantly contribute towards the cost of reaching
NZE by 2040 without increasing the current budget deficit. Policy and Legislation Climate Change
(Emissions Targets) Bill 2021 NSW Net Zero
Plan Stage 1: 2020–2030 NSW Waste and
Sustainable Materials Strategy 2041 NSW Electric
Vehicle Strategy 2021 NSW Electricity
Strategy 2019 Link to Strategic Plan The
Environment Objective: We create a
sustainable environment for future generations Outcome: We demonstrate sustainable
practices Risk Management Issues for
Council The NSW
Government’s ‘Guide to Climate Change Risk Assessment for NSW Local
Government 2019’ notes that Councils are often at the forefront of
addressing climate impacts, and communities will increasingly look to their
Council to provide solutions to adapt to, manage, transfer or share the risks
associated with climate change impacts. Achieving net
zero emissions will slow down the increase in global temperatures and the
associated increased likelihood of climate-related risks for natural and human
systems. Internal / External
Consultation Internal
consultation was undertaken with relevant Council staff, the Executive Team and
Councillors. The draft
Corporate NZE 2040 Strategy relates to Council’s emissions but will be
placed on public exhibition for a period of 28 days. Attachments 1 . Draft Corporate NZE 2040 Strategy -
  Provided under separate cover Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-4 RP-4 RESPONSE TO PETITION BY CLIMATE
RESCUE OF WAGGA INC, CLIMATE ACTION WAGGA AND WAGGA WAGGA FRIDAYS FOR FUTURE ON
COMMUNITY NET ZERO EMISSIONS Author: Mark
Gardiner Director: Janice Summerhayes Summary: A petition
  coordinated by Climate Rescue of Wagga Wagga Inc ,
  Climate Action Wagga, and Wagga Wagga Fridays for Future was reported to
  Council at its meeting 21 March 2022. The petition requests Council to:
  Support an interim net zero emissions target of 50% reduction in community
  emissions by 2030; Develop a plan for its role; Consult with the community on
  how to economically achieve emission reductions. Recommendation That
  Council: a       receive
  and note the report b       endorse
  an interim community net zero emissions target of 50% reduction in community emissions
  by 2030 as detailed in this report c        develop
  a roadmap that outlines Councils role in the community achieving both the
  2030 and 2050 net zero emissions targets d       endorse
  staff to facilitate 6 monthly forums comprising of representatives of relevant
  community and business groups with State Government agencies to discuss the
  approach to community net zero emissions e       approve
  the budget variation/s as detailed in the Financial Implications section of
  the report Report Council
received an on-line petition and a hard copy petition on 7 March 2022 from
Climate Rescue of Wagga Wagga Inc, Climate Action Wagga, and Wagga Wagga
Fridays for Future. Council resolved at its meeting 21
March 2022: That Council: a.   receive
and note the petition b.   receive
a further report at Council’s Ordinary Meeting on 11 April
2022                          
in response to the petition received The action
requested in the Petition calls on “Wagga Council to ambitiously
support community net zero emissions.” We call on Council to: · Support an
interim target of 50% reduction in Community Emissions by 2030, in line with
the NSW Government 2030 Target · Develop a plan
for its role in the community achieving both this 2030 target and the 2050
target of community Net Zero Emissions · Consult with
the community on how to economically achieve emission reductions We also call on Council to include
these commitments in the Wagga Community Strategic Plan. In April 2021 Council adopted net zero
emission (NZE) targets that included a Corporate NZE target by 2040 and
a community NZE target by 2050. The intent of the community NZE target was to
reflect and support the NSW State Government in its goals to achieve emission
reduction. Council has a key role in helping to achieve this goal through
demonstrating leadership, raising awareness and encouraging action at a local
level. It was not intended that Council would become responsible for the
delivery of the community target or funding specific objectives/programs of the
State Government. Since Council
adopted a community NZE target, the NSW Government has revised its objectives
to half emissions by 2030 as an interim target to achieving net zero emissions
by 2050. Given the intent of setting our community NZE target was to align with
the NSW Government NZE target, it is recommended that Council consider adopting
an interim community NZE target of 50% below 2005 levels by 2030. Noting
Councils role of demonstrating leadership, raising awareness and encouraging
action at a local level will be within our existing resources and available
budgets. If there are expectations of Council funding and delivering programs
at an increased level this would require an increase in budget allocations and
resources. It is also recommended that Council staff develop a roadmap
that outlines and provides clarity regarding Councils role in the community
achieving both the 2030 and 2050 net zero emissions targets. This will provide
a clear direction on what part Council will play in supporting the State
Governments NZE targets. To enhance
consultation with the community on how to achieve the community  emission
reductions it is recommended a 6 monthly forum be held comprising of
representatives of business, community groups and State Government agencies to
discuss the approach to community net zero emissions. This format allows
Council to have State government participate and a wider reach for
contributions by other stakeholders, business organisations and community
groups, rather than a limited number of individuals in a formal committee
environment. The current
draft suite of integrated planning and reporting documents already has an
action to “Support and empower our community to reach net zero emissions
by 2050”. If Council adopts the recommendations in this report, the
current draft will be amended to reflect the interim target for 2030, and
include development of a roadmap that will outline Council’s role in the
journey to NZE by 2050. Financial Implications It is estimated
$15,000 would be required to develop a roadmap that outlines Councils role in
the community achieving both the 2030 and 2050 net zero emissions targets. The $15,000
would be funded from the Energy Initiatives budget, which has a budget allocation
of $103,000 for 2021/22 with $45,485 currently committed as of 22 March 2022,
leaving a budget remaining of $57,515. If there are
expectations of Council funding and delivering programs at an increased level
this would require an increase in budget allocations and
resources. Policy and Legislation Petitions Management Policy
– POL 086 Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: City of Wagga
Wagga services reflect the needs of the community Outcome: We have access to
the City of Wagga Wagga Risk Management Issues for
Council The NSW
Government’s ‘Guide to Climate Change Risk Assessment for NSW Local
Government 2019’ notes that Councils are often
at the forefront of addressing climate impacts, and communities will
increasingly look to their Council to provide solutions to adapt to, manage,
transfer or share the risks associated with climate change impacts. Achieving net zero emissions will slow down the increase
in global temperatures and the associated increased likelihood of
climate-related risks for natural and human systems. Internal / External
Consultation Internal with
Corporate Strategy in terms of the Community Strategic Plan considerations. Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-5 RP-5 RESPONSE TO NOTICE OF MOTION - COMMUNITY
NET ZERO EMISSIONS TARGET Author: Mark
Gardiner Director: Janice Summerhayes Summary: Council
  received a notice of motion at its meeting 31 January 2022 from Councillor
  McKinnon regarding the Wagga Wagga community net zero emissions target. This
  report provides a response to the matters raised. Recommendation That
  Council receive and note the report. Report Council
received a Notice of Motion at its meeting 31 January 2022 from Councillor
McKinnon and resolved: That Council: a     notes
that in April 2021 Council adopted a community target for Net Zero Emissions
(NZE) by 2050, in line with the NSW Government target b     notes
that Council’s commitment to NZE for the community by 2050 will have
implications for the review currently being undertaken of Council’s
Integrated Planning and Reporting suite of documents c     receives
a report by April 2022 addressing the following: i.     what are the implications for
Wagga’s community zero emissions target of the changes made by the NSW government
in September 2021 to include the objective of ‘lowering emissions by 50%
below 2005 levels by 2030’? ii.    what
current actions are being taken by Council to lead the community, or to develop
community leadership, regarding the community NZE target? iii.   given
the urgency of the action needed to achieve the emissions reduction targets,
what would be the advantages / disadvantages of the establishment of a
community advisory committee for the NZE target? iv.   what
changes to the CSP will be needed in order to reflect the urgency of the
emissions reduction targets and the actions that the community will need to
take? v.    what
community education programs are in place or are planned regarding the
community NZE targets? vi.   how
council support of the community NZE target could be funded for example through
Government grants The following is in response to
the Notice of Motion: What are the
implications for Wagga’s community zero emissions target of the changes
made by the NSW government in September 2021 to include the objective of
‘lowering emissions by 50% below 2005 levels by 2030’? The NSW
Government has set objectives to half emissions by 2030 and achieving net zero
emissions by 2050. The NSW Net Zero Plan (Stage 1: 2020 – 2030 )
proposes to reduce emissions (NZE) by growing the economy, creating jobs and
reducing household costs, while delivering a 50% cut in emissions by 2030
compared to 2005 levels. The Plan acknowledges achieving net zero emissions by
2050 will require action from the State and Commonwealth Governments, local
government, business, communities and individuals. The Plan identifies four
priority areas: 1. Drive uptake of proven
emissions reduction technologies that grow the economy, create new jobs or
reduce the cost of living 2. Empower consumers and
businesses to make sustainable choices 3. Invest in the next wave of emissions
reduction innovation to ensure economic prosperity from decarbonisation beyond
2030 4. Ensure the NSW Government
leads by example Although the
NSW Government targets are currently not mandated, a
current Bill before the NSW Parliament (Climate Change (Emissions Targets)
Bill 2021) may see these targets become legislated. Council has a key role in
helping to achieve this goal through demonstrating leadership, raising
awareness and encouraging action at a local level. Given the intent of setting
our Community Net Zero Emission target was to align with the NSW Government NZE
target, Council should further consider adopting an interim Community Net Zero
Emission target of 50% below 2005 levels by 2030. Noting this is a
recommendation provided within the community NZE petition
report. The Wagga Wagga
community emissions profile (Figure 1 below) identifies energy, transport,
waste and agriculture as the main sources of the emissions. Ironbark
Sustainability calculated the community emissions to be 1,091,000 t CO 2 e for 2019/2020. The methodology used in estimating the community emissions is
based on the system used by the International Panel for Climate Change (IPCC).
It is largely modelled data, based on portioning state level data sets and
scaling them to the Local Government Area using a relevant
metric. Figure 1:
2019/20 Wagga Wagga Emissions Snapshot (sourced from snapshot community climate
tool - Ironbark Sustainability and Beyond Zero Emissions). The climate
snapshot data is developed according to the Global Protocol for Community-Scale
Greenhouse Gas Inventories (GPC). The data is accurate enough to support
decision making to reduce emissions to our Local Government Area (LGA) but is
not precise. The data is largely generated from top down state level data on
greenhouse gas emissions and accurately identifies the largest emissions. This
data currently does not include any offset modelling for the sequestration of
carbon within the soil or vegetation across the Local Government Area and will
provide significant opportunity for offsetting community emissions. What current
actions are being taken by Council to lead the community, or to develop
community leadership, regarding the community NZE target? Council has continued
to show leadership related to emission reductions since the
signing of the ‘NSW Mayor’s Agreement on Climate Change’
through the Cities for Climate Protection Program in 2008 which committed to
set reduction targets for 2020 and beyond. The adoption of further targets in April
2021 included a Corporate NZE target by 2040 and a community NZE target by
2050. Councils role
of demonstrating leadership, raising awareness and encouraging action at a
local level has included: · Incorporating
NZE targets within our key community documents such as the Community Strategic
Plan and the Local Strategic Planning Statement that includes support for the
NSW Net Zero 2050 target. · Membership
of Cities Power Partnership and Sustainability Advantage programs. · Mayor
presenting at the 2020 Climate Change March in Wagga Wagga. · Staff
attending and presenting at local Climate Change forums. · Delivering
projects that reduce emissions including: o Energy
efficiency projects o Solar
installations o Purchase
of Electric and hybrid vehicles o Community
electric vehicle charge station o Diverting food and garden organics from landfill o Active
travel Furthermore,
the Wagga Wagga Special Activation Precinct (SAP) aims to be a leader in
industrial sustainability which includes a Net Zero Emissions framework. The
SAP Master Plan states “it will provide a framework for the Wagga Wagga
Special Activation Precinct to become an Eco-Industrial precinct (built on the
United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) framework) which
will include achieving net zero emissions, 100% energy self-sufficiency,
integrating best practice water cycle and waste initiatives”. This is
significant given currently industrial energy use accounts for approximately
23% of the LGA emissions profile. Given the
urgency of the action needed to achieve the emissions reduction targets, what
would be the advantages / disadvantages of the establishment of a community
advisory committee for the NZE target? Community
Advisory Committees provide: · a
means of communicating and consulting with members of the community related to
programs. · organisations
and community representatives to provide valuable advice and assistance to the
Council · the
community and other key stakeholders to participate in the setting of future
directions Committees do
require additional resources including: · Preparation
of agendas, reports and minutes · Professional
staff and minute taker to attend meetings · Training
to Committee members where required · Provision
of a meeting venue and refreshments as appropriate There are
three (3) existing groups that are active within the Wagga Wagga
community      focused on driving action on Climate
Change. This includes: · Climate
Rescue of Wagga · Climate
Action Wagga · Wagga
Wagga Fridays for Future The
establishment of a community advisory committee for the Community NZE target
may duplicate the work that is already occurring through community/stakeholder
groups and an alternate approach could be to hold 6
monthly forums comprising of representatives of the
community, industries and State Government agencies to discuss the approach to
community Net Zero Emissions. The community
place-based forums is an approach that is in line with other priority area
responses like the Access forums and community safety forums. This format
allows Council to have State Government participate and a wider reach for
contributions by other stakeholders, business organisations and community
groups, rather than a limited number of individuals in a formal committee
environment. What changes
to the CSP will be needed in order to reflect the urgency of the emissions
reduction targets and the actions that the community will need to take? Preparation for
the draft revised CSP has been informed by changes to Wagga Wagga LGA since the
previous Community Strategic Plan 2040 – Wagga View was endorsed by
Council on behalf of our community in 2017. The current
draft suite of integrated planning and reporting documents already has an
action to “Support and empower our community to reach net zero emissions
by 2050”. If Council adopts the recommendations in Report 4 in the
agenda, the current draft will be amended to reflect the interim target for
2030. It will also include development of a roadmap that will outline
Council’s role in the journey to NZE by 2050. Council has a
role in helping to achieve this goal through demonstrating leadership, raising
awareness and encouraging action at a local level, but will be reliant on the
whole community, State and Federal Governments to take decisive action to
achieve NZE. What
community education programs are in place or are planned regarding the
community NZE targets? As part of
Council’s operational plans educational and engagement opportunities have
over time been implemented at community events, through environmental programs
and cultural facilities like the Art Gallery, Museum, Library and Civic Theatre
by way of public programs, educational pieces, exhibitions and performances.
Actions are also captured as part of particular strategies like the
Biodiversity Strategy and Integrated Transport Plan e.g. the delivery of the
Active Travel Plan. As part of Council’s strategies and operational plans
it is envisaged for a focus and strengthening on actions where Council can
resource or influence to support our journey to Net Zero Emissions. The following
provides a summary of the different emission sources and the potential for
Council to influence change in the community. Energy
Emissions To influence
energy emissions Council can: · Educate and
encourage residents and businesses on how to reduce their energy use through
behaviour change and equipment/appliance upgrades · Promote and encourage
the use of renewable energy options · Promote State and
Federal energy efficiency schemes, rebates and incentives · Help to reduce
cooling bills in some areas by increasing shade · Help to reduce
energy bills by enforcing BASIX requirements and other planning measures such
as white roofs and energy efficiency measures through development planning
controls Transport
Emissions To influence
transport emissions Council can: · Educate and
encourage residents and businesses on how to reduce their fuel use through
behaviour change · Promote and
encourage the use of hybrid and electric vehicle options · Promote and
encourage the use of public transport, active transport and car-sharing options · Promote and
encourage the carbon offsetting of flights as a social norm · Facilitate
on-demand bus services particularly for events · Ensure
availability of appropriate active travel infrastructure and end of trip
facilities in public places · Encourage and
promote the installation of EV charge points in key public spaces · Put planning
controls in place to encourage cycle parking stations and EV charging for large
or high-density developments. Waste
Emissions To influence
waste emissions Council can: · Employ waste
minimisation strategies at all Council facilities and events · Embed sustainable
procurement and circular economy principles into all Council operations · Expand the gas
capture network at the landfill · Explore gas
capture technologies for the sewerage treatment works · Extend the
roll-out of FOGO to commercial premises · Educate and
encourage residents and businesses on how to reduce their waste generation
through waste avoidance and minimisation (behaviour change) · Educate and
encourage residents and businesses on how to reuse and recycle their waste more
effectively · Promote and
encourage the use of drop-off centres for problem wastes · Promote and
encourage sustainable procurement and circular economy principles to residents
and businesses · Put planning
controls in place to encourage better waste infrastructure at large or
high-density developments. Agricultural
Emissions To influence
agricultural emissions Council can: · Support local
carbon farming opportunities and link local farmers to State and Federal
grants, incentives and rebates · Support local
agricultural research in partnership with Department of Primary Industries and
Charles Sturt University · Support and encourage
local farmers to undertake sustainable agricultural practices and regenerative
farming in line with Local Land Services and Department of Primary Industries
initiatives and programs · Support local
community tree planting activities and explore partnerships with local farmers
to plant trees on private land. How council
support of the community NZE target could be funded for example through
Government grants The community
transition to NZE requires significant investment from both State and Federal
Governments. It is anticipated there will be funding allocated by both levels
of government to meet the NZE targets. The NSW Government is investing $1.4
billion through its NSW Climate Change Fund. They are providing funding for
programs that will help households, businesses and communities benefit from
clean energy and programs to promote energy efficiency. This includes: · discounts on high efficiency fixed appliances for
households · discounts for small businesses to upgrade to energy saving
equipment · training for small businesses to save energy and money · energy efficiency support for manufacturers · more efficient street lighting · new energy efficiency standards for appliances, buildings
and infrastructure · the Net Zero Plan programs, including the NSW Electric
Vehicle Strategy; the Net Zero Industry and Innovation Program; the Hydrogen
Program; the Energy Security Safeguard; and other energy efficiency programs
for households and businesses. · a solar battery loan offer program for homes · smart energy storage for key government buildings · regional community energy projects · rooftop solar systems for eligible low-income households · the NSW Electricity Strategy and Electricity Infrastructure
Roadmap programs, including developing Renewable Energy Zones in regional New
South Wales and the Water NSW Renewable Energy and Storage Program At a local
level there are a number of community grant programs that community
organisations could also consider for delivering programs. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation Climate Change
(Emissions Targets) Bill 2021 NSW Net Zero
Plan Stage 1: 2020–2030 NSW Waste and
Sustainable Materials Strategy 2041 NSW Electric
Vehicle Strategy 2021 NSW Electricity
Strategy 2019 Link to Strategic Plan The
Environment Objective: We create a
sustainable environment for future generations Outcome: We demonstrate
sustainable practices Risk Management Issues for
Council The NSW
Government’s ‘Guide to Climate Change Risk Assessment for NSW Local
Government 2019’ notes that Councils are often
at the forefront of addressing climate impacts, and communities will
increasingly look to their Council to provide solutions to adapt to, manage,
transfer or share the risks associated with climate change impacts. Achieving net zero emissions will slow down the increase
in global temperatures and the associated increased likelihood of
climate-related risks for natural and human systems. Internal / External
Consultation Internal with
Corporate Strategy in terms of the Community Strategic Plan considerations. Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-6 RP-6 LAND SALES - RIFL INDUSTRIAL
SUBDIVISION Author: Chris
Barrett General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: This report
  provides an update on the sale of lots in the industrial land subdivision in
  Bomen adjacent to the Riverina Intermodal Freight and Logistics terminal
  (RIFL). Recommendation That
  Council: a       note
  progress on the development of an industrial subdivision adjacent to the RIFL
  (Riverina Intermodal Freight and Logistics) intermodal terminal b       authorise
  the General Manager or delegate to proceed with the sale of lots in the
  industrial subdivision via the process that is set out in this report c        authorise
  the General Manager or delegate to seek any necessary approvals for the sale
  process from the Regional Growth NSW Development Corporation d       request
  a further report to be presented to Council on the outcomes of the sales
  process Report Over the past
two years, Council has been developing the first stage of a strategic
industrial subdivision in Bomen adjacent to the new rail and road intermodal
terminal (known as the Riverina Intermodal Freight and Logistics terminal, or
RIFL). Lots in this
subdivision are to be primarily targeted at freight and logistics operators and
at related uses that may benefit from close proximity to the intermodal
terminal. While the land
is under Council ownership and development works are being managed by Council,
the cost of developing the land has been assisted via State Government funding
under the Growing Local Economies program. Development
works are expected to be finalised in about six months. The process for
marketing and selling lots is starting sooner, as there is already substantial
interest from the open market. The location of
the RIFL hub (including road/rail terminal and industrial subdivision) is shown
below at Figure One. Figure 1 (above) –
Locality Plan for Bomen Special Activation Precinct and RIFL hub Figure 2 shows the provisional
plan of subdivision, which identifies 13 saleable lots with an area of about 39
hectares in total (i.e. the average size is about 3 hectares). Figure 2
(above) – Indicative plan of subdivision for RIFL subdivision. This
figure also shows the adjoining rail/road intermodal terminal, which is being
leased to Visy Logistics and operated on its behalf by QUBE. Interest has
been expressed in two sections of the subdivision by Visy Logistics (the
terminal leaseholder) and ROBE (a major oilseed processing facility). The sale
of the land of interest to these businesses will be negotiated separately. The balance of
the land will be offered for sale by way of a two-part process, namely
expression of interest followed by select tender. Marketing is
expected to commence in May, with the finalisation of contracts expected to
occur by October. In accordance
with the deed of agreement signed by Council to secure Growing Local Economies
funds, net proceeds of sale after deducting relevant costs will be reinvested
in the development of further stages of the Bomen Special Activation Precinct. Outline of Sales process The subdivision
approval process has started but is not yet complete. An
“off-the-plan” sale process is considered the best way to
accommodate the expectations of prospective buyers who are keen to acquire land
in the subdivision and start development sooner rather than later. A special
condition will be included to give certainty that the land is developed in a
timely manner and not land-banked. Council will have authority to revert the
land to Council ownership via buy-back at sale price if development has not
substantially commenced within a pre-agreed time frame (indicatively, 18
months). The sales
options that is best fit for the RIFL industrial subdivision is a two-stage EOI
process that includes select tender. Qualitative
criteria (value of development, timing of development, compatibility of
development with the intent of the subdivision, namely, creation of a freight
and logistics related hub) will be significant considerations in the assessment
of market interest. Provision will be made to consider expressions of interest
that offer exceptional public benefit but which may be outside the defined
criteria. The first stage
of the sale process will be a widely-marketed EOI process. Multiple expressions
of interest may be received for individual lots, overlapping expressions of
interest may be received in relation to some lots, or expressions of interest
may be received for lots in an alternative configuration (for example,
potential purchasers may express interest in acquiring lots of 4 to 6 hectares,
rather than 3 hectares). The evident type and level of
interest will be assessed and expressions of interest that are suitable for
shortlisting will be identified. Thereafter, the sales process will move to
select tender. Prospective purchasers will need to enter into binding
commitments to secure specific lots. Financial Implications Transaction
costs associated with the purchase, holding, development and sale of the lots
identified in this report will be deducted from gross sale proceeds. On account
of the commercially sensitive nature of the matter, detailed discussion about
the treatment of the proceeds of sales is dealt with in the confidential
attachment. Policy and Legislation The sales
process is being carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Local
Government Act. Link to Strategic Plan Growing
Economy Objective: We are a
Regional Capital Outcome: We are leading
freight and logistics centre, encourage business investment Risk Management Issues for
Council The sales
timetable that has been set out in this report is considered resilient and
flexible enough to accommodate a range of logistical issues that could
contribute to delays in finalising the subdivision process for these two sites. The risk of
attracting development that is not in keeping with the vision for the RIFL
industrial subdivision, or of land being land-banked and on-sold, is mitigated
by the inclusion of selection criteria that specifically address scale and type
of development and also the inclusion of sales conditions that discourage
land-banking. The risk of
achieving a financial result that is not in keeping with Council expectations
is mitigated by (i) the requirement for the successful marketing agency to
provide a robust methodology for the setting of target price and (ii) vigorous
marketing of the sales process both at a local and at a national level. Internal / External
Consultation Councillors
have been briefed about the sales process prior to the preparation of this
report. Market soundings have been undertaken both in terms of pricing and
level of interest. A number of approaches have been made to council
representatives by interested parties, who have been advised that the land
would be sold via a publicly accountable process such as a two-stage EOI
process that includes select tender. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news story Council News advert Media releases TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community
  meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult X X Involve X X X X X X X Collaborate X X X X X Attachments 1 . RiFL - Land Sales This matter is
  considered to be confidential under Section 10A(2) of the Local Government
  Act 1993, as it deals with: information that would, if disclosed, confer a
  commercial advantage on a person with whom the Council is conducting (or
  proposes to conduct) business. Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-7 RP-7 ACQUISITION, DISPOSAL AND
MANAGEMENT OF LAND POLICY Author: Matthew
Dombrovski General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: A review of
  POL 38 Leasing & Licensing Policy has been carried out. Significant
  amendments to the policy have been made, including the broadening of the
  policy to cover the acquisition and disposal of Council land. Accordingly,
  the endorsement of Council and subsequent public exhibition is now required. Recommendation That
  Council: a       endorse
  the draft ‘Acquisition, Disposal and Management of Land’ Policy
  (POL 038) b       place
  the draft ‘Acquisition, Disposal and Management of Land’ Policy
  (POL 038) on public exhibition for a period of 28 days from 13 April to 11
  May 2022 and invite public submission until 11 May 2022 on the draft Policy c        receive
  a further report following the public exhibition and submission period: i         Addressing
  any submissions made with respect to the proposed Acquisition, Disposal and
  management of Land Policy (POL 038) ii        Proposing
  adoption of the Policy unless there are any recommended amendments deemed to
  be substantial and requiring a further public exhibition period Report A review of the
existing POL 038 Leasing & Licensing Policy has been undertaken. It was
noted that as part of the review that Council does not currently have any
formal policy in relation to the acquisition and/or disposal of land, and it
was considered appropriate to incorporate this into the existing policy to
create a broader Land Management Policy. The draft Policy
as attached has been revised with the following proposed amendments: · Change of name to
Acquisition, Disposal and Management of Land Policy (POL 038) · Inclusion of Part
1 setting out detailed policy objectives and fundamental principles in dealings
with Council Land. This section includes the inclusion of relevant legislative
context and associated documents. · Inclusion of Part
2 detailing the process of acquisition of land and the principles that should
be considered should be taken when considering the acquisition of land. This
section includes: o Information about the classification
of land o Acquisition of Land Framework and
key principles of land acquisition including the Land Acquisitions (Just Terms
Compensation) Act 1991 o Details of valuation benchmarks that
should be considered when acquiring property o Details of the acquisition process
including preparation of information brief and reporting to Council for
endorsement. · Inclusion of Part
3 detailing the process of disposal of land and the principles that should be
considered should be taken when considering the disposal of land. This section
includes: o Information about the types of land
that can be sold by Council o Disposal of Land Framework and key
principles of land disposal process o Details of valuation benchmarks that
should be considered when disposing of property o Details of methods of disposal
including Auction, Tender, Expression of Interest and Direct Negotiation and
guidelines for the use of each of these methodologies. · Renumbering of
existing policy to Part 4 Land Management detailing the process of managing
Council Land. This section includes: o Amendment to methodology for the
calculation of rental charges to specifically identify methodologies for
grazing licences and road licences and/or enclosure permits. o Amendment to particulars of rent
review to include additional information about the proposed methodology of calculating
rental reviews. o Amendment to the requirements for
tenants / licensees to pay outgoings and maintain the properties outlining how
outgoings are calculated in circumstances where there are multiple tenants
within a premises and what happens with improvements made by a tenant /
licensee on the termination or expiry of a lease or licence. o Amendment of provisions relating to
the grant of leases and licences over Crown land in light of legislative
changes including the introduction of the Crown Land Management Act 2016 and
requirements to comply with Plans of Management. o Removal of separate provisions
concerning the leasing of agistment land (ie grazing licences) so as to create
a consistent approach to lease / licence renewal. · Inclusion of Part 5
General Provisions. This section includes: o Provisions about use of standard
contracts for sale of property and the use of the common seal. o Provisions about the appointment of
real estate agents. o Provisions about confidentiality of
Council reports. o Provision authorising the departure
from the policy by way of resolution of Council. To allow
community feedback on the draft policy, it is recommended that the draft Policy
be placed on public exhibition for 28 days from 13 April 2022 to 11 May 2022
and invite public submissions until 11 May 2022 on the draft Policy. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation Local
Government Act 1993 Leasing &
Licensing Policy (POL 038) Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council Council
policies are essential to ensure transparent legal, fair and consistent
decision making across the Council. They support Council in achieving its
corporate objectives, and provide a critical guide for staff, Councillors and
other stakeholders. In the absence of effective policies there is a greater
risk of inconsistency, confusion and inefficiency and can lead to
non-compliance with the requirements of legislation and regulations. Internal / External
Consultation To date, the
Acquisition, Disposal and Management of Land Policy (POL 032) has been reviewed
internally by staff. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news story Council News advert Media releases TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community
  meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult x x x Involve Collaborate Attachments 1 ⇩ . Acquisition, Disposal & Management
  of Land Policy (POL 038) Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-7 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 11
  April 2022 RP-8 RP-8 RELINQUISHMENT OF EASEMENT - 34
KOORINGAL ROAD, EAST WAGGA WAGGA Author: Matthew
Dombrovski General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: This report
  deals with a request received from NGH Consulting for Council to consider
  relinquishing an easement for the former proposed eastern industrial levee
  over property at 34 Kooringal Road, East Wagga Wagga. Recommendation That
  Council: a       resolve
  to relinquish easement for the proposed eastern industrial levee over 34
  Kooringal Road, East Wagga Wagga (Lot 72 in Deposited Plan 1149947) b       authorise
  the General Manager or their delegate to complete and execute any necessary
  documents on behalf of Council c        authorise
  the affixing of Council’s common seal to all relevant documents as
  required Report Council has
received correspondence from NGH Consulting, acting on behalf of the registered
proprietors of 34 Kooringal Road, East Wagga Wagga, Steele Norman Willis and
Meeghan Caroline Willis. The property at
34 Kooringal Road, East Wagga Wagga (being Lot 72 in Deposited Plan 1149947) is
zoned IN1 General Industrial, and NGH Consulting has been engaged to assist
them in undertaking preliminary investigations for an industrial development on
the site. NGH have sought
clarification over an easement registered over the property for the
establishment of the proposed eastern industrial levee. NGH notes that their
understanding is that Council has resolved to abandon the eastern industrial
levee, and therefore is requesting that Council formally relinquish the easement
over the land. Counsultation
with Council’s Operations Directorate has confirmed that in the 2009
Wagga Wagga Floodplain Risk Management Plain, it was recommended that the
proposal for a levee providing a 20 year ARI level of protection for the eastern
industrial area should be removed from Council’s long term planning as
council’s current filling policy will produce a similar effect without
the additional loss of floodplain storage width. The following actions were
noted: · F2: remove the
eastern industrial levee from Council’s long-term planning. · F3: Continue
Council’s current 20-year ARI level of protection filling policy for
development in the eastern industrial area. The subsequent
2018 Wagga Wagga Revised Murrumbidgee River Floodplain Risk Management Study
and Plan notes these actions as having been completed and implemented. Taking
into account the above, is recommended that Council resolve to relinquish the
easement over 34 Kooringal Road, East Wagga Wagga. Financial Implications It is recommended
that if Council resolves to relinquish the easement over this property, the
registered proprietors should be responsible for payment of Council’s
costs in relinquishing the easement. This would include legal costs &
disbursements associated with the preparation and lodgement of relevant
documentation with NSW Land Registry Service. Accordingly, there would be no
financial implication for Council. Policy and Legislation Local
Government Act 1993 Conveyancing
Act 1919 Link to Strategic Plan Growing
Economy Objective: We are a
Regional Capital Outcome: We attract and
support local businesses and industry Risk Management Issues for
Council Council needs
to adopt suitable flood management and mitigation strategies. Other
landowners affected by the proposed eastern industrial levee may seek similar a
similar relinquishment of easement. Given the recommendation that all costs
associated are to be borne by the landowner requesting the relinquishment,
there would be no financial implication for Council. Internal / External
Consultation Internal
consultation has been undertaken with Council’s Regional Activation and
Operations directorates. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Letter from NGH dated 19 November 2021 Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-8 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 11
  April 2022 RP-9 RP-9 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REPORT AS AT
31 MARCH 2022 Author: Carolyn
Rodney General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: This report
  is for Council to consider information presented on the 2021/22 budget and
  Long-Term Financial Plan, and details Council’s external investments
  and performance as at 31 March 2022. Recommendation That Council: a       approve
  the proposed 2021/22 budget variations for the month ended 31 March 2022 and
  note the balanced budget position as presented in this report b       approve
  the proposed budget variations to the 2021/22 Long Term Financial Plan
  Capital Works Program including future year timing adjustments and new
  projects c        note
  the Responsible Accounting Officer’s reports, in accordance with the Local
  Government (General) Regulation 2005 (Part 9 Division 3: Clause 203) that
  the financial position of Council is satisfactory having regard to the
  original estimates of income and expenditure and the recommendations made
  above d       note
  the details of the external investments as at 31 March 2022 in accordance
  with section 625 of the Local Government Act 1993 Report Wagga Wagga
City Council (Council) forecasts a balanced budget position as at 31 March
2022. The balanced budget position excludes the Wagga Wagga Airport estimated
deficit result for the financial year – as previously reported to
Council, any Airport deficit result will be sanctioned, and funded in the
interim by General Purpose Revenue (via the Internal Loans Reserve).  The
deficit results will be accounted for as a liability in the Airport’s end
of financial year statements and paid back to General Purpose Revenue (Internal
Loans Reserve) by the Airport in future financial years. Proposed budget
variations including adjustments to the capital works program are detailed in
this report for Council’s consideration and adoption. Council has
experienced a negative monthly investment performance for the month of March
when compared to budget ($401,109 down on the monthly budget). This is mainly
due to a negative movement in the principal value of Council’s Floating
Rate Note (FRN) portfolio as trading margins on these securities widened
significantly. Key
Performance Indicators OPERATING
INCOME Total operating
income is 75% of approved budget and is trending on budget for the month of
March 2022. An adjustment has been made to reflect the levy of rates that
occurred at the start of the financial year. Excluding this adjustment,
operating income received is 91% when compared to budget. OPERATING EXPENSES Total operating
expenditure is 71% of approved budget so it is tracking slightly below budget
at this stage of the financial year. CAPITAL INCOME Total capital
income is 44% of approved budget. It is important to note that the actual
income from capital is influenced by the timing of the receipt of capital
grants and contributions relating to projects. This income also includes the
sale of property, plant and equipment. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Total capital
expenditure including commitments is 70% of approved budget (including pending
projects) which is as a result of purchase orders being raised for the full
contract amounts for multi-year projects. Excluding commitments, the total
expenditure is 33% when compared to the approved budget. WAGGA WAGGA CITY COUNCIL STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1 JULY 2021 TO 31
  MARCH 2022 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT ORIGINAL BUDGET 2021/22 BUDGET ADJ 2021/22 APPROVED BUDGET 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL   EXCL COMMT'S 2021/22 COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL + COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD % OF BUD Revenue Rates
  & Annual Charges (73,169,576) 0 (73,169,576) (54,856,246) 0 (54,856,246) 75% User Charges & Fees (25,224,298) (268,906) (25,493,204) (18,909,888) 0 (18,909,888) 74% Interest
  & Investment Revenue (2,014,844) 0 (2,014,844) (878,057) 0 (878,057) 44% Other Revenues (3,437,263) (364,722) (3,801,985) (3,434,560) 0 (3,434,560) 90% Operating
  Grants & Contributions (12,902,235) 3,513,975 (9,388,260) (7,294,918) 0 (7,294,918) 78% Capital Grants & Contributions (82,436,148) (5,266,773) (87,702,921) (38,866,829) 0 (38,866,829) 44% Total
  Revenue (199,184,362) (2,386,427) (201,570,790) (124,240,497) 0 (124,240,497) 62% Expenses Employee Benefits & On-Costs 49,289,314 (5,559) 49,283,756 33,503,049 0 33,503,049 68% Borrowing
  Costs 3,211,705 (85,612) 3,126,094 2,040,923 0 2,040,923 65% Materials & Services 35,727,106 7,297,621 43,024,726 27,080,377 4,472,053 31,552,430 73% Depreciation
  & Amortisation 39,287,050 0 39,287,050 29,465,287 0 29,465,287 75% Other Expenses 3,708,040 2,174,028 5,882,068 2,897,568 2,633 2,900,201 49% Total
  Expenses 131,223,215 9,380,479 140,603,694 94,987,204 4,474,686 99,461,890 71% Net
  Operating (Profit)/Loss (67,961,147) 6,994,051 (60,967,096) (29,253,293) 4,474,686 (24,778,607) Net
  Operating (Profit)/Loss before Capital Grants & Contributions 14,475,001 12,260,825 26,735,825 9,613,536 4,474,686 14,088,222 Capital
  / Reserve Movements Capital Expenditure - One Off Confirmed 75,756,060 32,778,701 108,534,761 44,850,540 34,469,965 79,320,505 73% Capital Expenditure – Recurrent 18,512,675 1,034,259 19,546,934 5,543,549 5,753,305 11,296,854 58% Capital Exp – Pending Projects 43,269,470 (43,227,470) 42,000 1,633 0 1,633 0% Loan
  Repayments 8,236,502 (372,935) 7,863,567 4,302,377 0 4,302,377 55% New Loan Borrowings (17,678,518) 6,999,671 (10,678,847) 0 0 0 0% Sale
  of Assets (804,819) (2,066,159) (2,870,978) (1,059,747) 0 (1,059,747) 37% Net Movements Reserves (20,043,173) (2,140,119) (22,183,292) 0 0 0 0% Total
  Cap/Res Movements 107,248,197 (6,994,052) 100,254,146 53,638,351 40,223,270 93,861,621 ORIGINAL BUDGET 2021/22 BUDGET ADJ 2021/22 APPROVED BUDGET 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL   EXCL COMMT'S
  2021/22 COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD ACTUAL + COMMT'S 2021/22 YTD % OF BUD Net Result after Depreciation 39,287,050 0 39,287,050 24,385,058 44,697,956 69,083,014 Add back Depreciation Expense 39,287,050 0 39,287,050 29,465,287 0 29,465,287 75% Cash Budget (Surplus) /
  Deficit 0 0 0 (5,080,230) 44,697,956 39,617,727 Long
Term Financial Plan (Surplus) /Deficit* Description Budget 2021/22 Budget 2022/23 Budget 2023/24 Budget 2024/25 Budget 2025/26 Budget 2026/27 Budget 2027/28 Budget 2028/29 Budget 2029/30 Budget 2030/31 Adopted Bottom Line (Surplus) / Deficit 0 860,298 1,751,328 2,469,233 3,928,332 3,831,470 3,259,284 3,494,780 3,511,108 3,930,045 Prior Adopted Bottom Line Adjustments 0 (251,143) (465,404) (971,502) 1,045,839 (58,051) (46,640) (46,593) (46,793) (46,793) Revised Bottom Line (Surplus) / Deficit 0 609,155 1,285,924 1,497,731 4,974,171 3,773,419 3,212,644 3,448,187 3,464,315 3,883,253 * Note that the Revised Bottom Line (Surplus) / Deficit shown
includes adopted future year budget variations but does not include any pending
adjustments made in the draft 2022/23 Long
Term Financial Plan. 2021/22 Revised Budget
  Result – (Surplus) / Deficit $’000s Original 2021/22 Budget Result
  as adopted by Council Total Budget Variations approved to
  date Budget Variations for March 202 2 $0K $0K $0K Proposed
  Revised Budget result for 31 March 2022 - (Surplus) /
  Deficit $0K The proposed
Operating and Capital Budget Variations for 31 March 2022 which affect the
current 2021/22 financial year are listed below: Budget Variation Amount Funding
   Source Net
   Impact (Fav)/
   Unfav 2 – Safe and Healthy
  Community Fire Control Centre Refurbishment $25K Rural Fire Service Contribution
  ($25K) Nil Additional funds are required for
  the Fire Control Centre Refurbishment due to increased fit-out costs and a
  slight change in scope. The project involves changing the current training
  room into a new operations room due to RFS outgrowing their current room.
  Council is managing the project with the expenditure incurred to be
  reimbursed by the RFS at the end of the project. This brings the total
  project budget to $95K. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2022 Job
  Consolidation: 21460 Bagley Drive Land Acquisition $65K Parks & Recreation
  Reserve ($65K) Nil Additional funds are required for
  the Bagley Drive Land Acquisition due to the independent valuation valuing
  the parcel of land as being higher than the original resolution ( Res
  20/008 RP-5 Proposed Acquisition of Bagley Drive Land ). This will
  bring the total project budget to $150K and it is proposed to fund the
  variation from the Parks & Recreation Reserve. Estimated Completion: 30 June 2022 Job
  Consolidation: 21086 Cremator Brickworks Reline $200K Cemetery Reserve ($200K) Nil Funds are required to reline the
  brickworks of the cremator at the Cemetery. The cremator is in poor condition
  and is unsafe to use until the repairs are carried out. The brickwork in the after-chamber
  and the ceiling of the main chamber has deteriorated, so it is not operating
  correctly and causing damage to the flue. The life expectancy for the
  brickwork is approximately 10 years and it has been 13 years since works on
  the brickworks were undertaken. It is proposed to fund the variation from the
  Cemetery Reserve. Estimated Completion:  30 June
  2022 Job
  Consolidation:  21816 4 – Community Place and
  Identity Youth Program –
  We’ve got the drive! $50K NSW Department of Communities
  and Justice ($50K) Nil Wagga Wagga City Council in
  partnership with Mount Austin High School and NRMA have been successful in
  securing $50K from the Youth Opportunities Program funding from the NSW
  Department of Communities and Justice. The We've got the drive! project aims to address a gap within our youth population located in some of
  Wagga's most vulnerable suburbs.  It is designed to support up to 50
  local youth to gain their learners license, through to obtaining their full
  driver’s license. The funds will be utilised to purchase driver
  vouchers to access the safer driver’s course directly from NRMA along
  with other resources to support the student learners. Estimated Completion:  30 June
  2022 Job
  Consolidation:  21814 5 – The Environment Gentle Exercise Classes $8K Staying Active Grant ($8K) Nil Oasis has been successful in
  securing funding from Staying Active (Vitality Club) to conduct two
  additional Gentle Exercise Classes commencing May 2022. The funding will
  assist with the cost of room hire, staff, and other associated costs including
  promotions. Estimated Completion:  30 June
  2022 Job
  Consolidation:   28191 $0K 2021/22     Capital
Works Summary Capital
  Works Approved Budget Proposed Movement Proposed Budget One-off $108,534,760 $290,000 $108,824,760 Recurrent $19,546,933 $0 $19,546,933 Pending $42,000 $0 $42,000 Total Capital Works $128,123,693 $290,000 $128,413,693 Current Restrictions RESERVES SUMMARY 31  MARCH 2022 CLOSING BALANCE 2020/21 ADOPTED RESERVE TRANSFERS 2021/22 BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED UP TO COUNCIL
  MEETING 21.3.2022 PROPOSED CHANGES for Council Resolution* BALANCE AS AT 31 MARCH 2022 Externally Restricted Developer
  Contributions - Section 7.11 (27,924,028) 547,854 (1,242,660) (28,618,834) Developer Contributions - Section 7.12 462,032 (28,215) (3) 433,814 Developer
  Contributions - Stormwater Section 64 (5,936,952) (617,863) 110,124 (6,444,692) Sewer Fund (29,992,670) 3,094,449 (880,201) (27,778,423) Solid
  Waste (21,429,172) 10,541,347 (9,724,709) (20,612,534) Specific Purpose Unexpended Grants & Contributions (9,204,765) 9,204,765 0 SRV
  Levee Reserve (6,439,536) 139,774 (6,299,762) Stormwater Levy (4,588,976) (352,886) 280,166 (4,661,696) Total
  Externally Restricted (105,054,067) 13,184,685 (2,112,745) 0 (93,982,127) Internally Restricted Airport 0 420,584 (420,584) 0 Art
  Gallery (1,709) 0 0 (1,709) Bridge Replacement (296,805) 0 0 (296,805) Buildings (1,046,797) 159,433 (12,885) (900,249) CBD Carparking Facilities (498,295) 498,295 0 0 CCTV (100,843) 18,000 12,000 (70,843) Cemetery (828,348) (218,116) 10,200 200,000 (836,264) Civic
  Theatre (39,666) 5,930 (33,736) Civil Infrastructure (9,786,909) 2,236,679 (711,558) (8,261,788) Community
  Works (171,505) (40,429) 56,851 (155,083) Council Election (542,957) 403,602 0 (139,354) Economic
  Development (436,848) 367,520 (69,328) Emergency Events Reserve (231,184) (50,000) (328,015) (609,199) Employee
  Leave Entitlements Gen Fund (3,798,309) 0 (3,798,309) Environmental Conservation (116,578) 75,000 0 (41,578) Event
  Attraction (302,414) 122,647 (179,767) Grants Commission (5,382,345) 5,382,345 0 Gravel
  Pit Restoration (820,851) 3,333 7,980 (809,537) Information Services (1,052,159) 105,305 412,496 (534,358) Insurance Variations (50,000) 0 (50,000) Internal Loans (3,022,169) 1,158,394 (16,769) (1,880,544) Lake Albert Improvements (84,423) (21,417) 0 (105,839) Livestock Marketing Centre (4,447,351) 863,862 74,157 (3,509,332) Museum Acquisitions (39,378) 15,000 0 (24,378) Net Zero Emissions (375,555) 210,165 15,000 (150,390) Oasis Reserve (1,266,045) 764,654 80,249 (421,141) CLOSING BALANCE 2020/21 ADOPTED RESERVE TRANSFERS 2021/22 BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED UP TO COUNCIL
  MEETING 21.3.2022 PROPOSED CHANGES for Council Resolution BALANCE AS AT 31 MARCH 2022 Parks & Recreation Projects (942,906) (67,410) 348,285 65,000 (597,031) Planning
  Legals (60,000) (40,000) 0 (100,000) Plant Replacement (4,302,142) 21,032 1,829,093 (2,452,017) Project
  Carryovers (3,816,168) 76,000 3,740,168 0 Public Art (177,324) 138,183 (125,981) (165,123) Sister
  Cities (40,000) (10,000) 0 (50,000) Stormwater Drainage (158,178) 0 (158,178) Strategic
  Real Property (800,000) 800,000 0 Subdivision Tree Planting (486,675) 20,000 0 (466,675) Unexpended
  External Loans (2,004,486) 118,338 1,777,404 (108,745) Workers Compensation (190,649) 30,000 (160,649) Total
  Internally Restricted (47,717,970) 6,858,488 13,456,533 265,000 (27,137,949) Total
  Restricted (152,772,037) 20,043,173 11,343,789 265,000 (121,120,075) Total
  Unrestricted (9,818,000) 0 0 0 (9,818,000) Total
  Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments (162,590,037) 20,043,173 11,343,789 265,000 (130,938,075) CONSULTANCY & LEGAL EXPENSES BUDGET
  REVIEW STATEMENT 31 MARCH 2022 Approved Changes BUDGET 2021/22 SEPTEMBER QTR BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED
  TO DATE DECEMBER QTR BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED
  TO DATE MARCH QTR BUDGET VARIATIONS APPROVED TO
  DATE REVISED BUDGET PROJECTED YEAR END RESULT ACTUAL YTD Consultancy
  Expenses 142,016 48,145 7,715 96,292 294,168 294,168 224,011 Legal
  Expenses 326,072 0 25,000 20,285 371,357 371,357 191,337 CONTRACTS REVIEW STATEMENT 1 JANUARY TO 31 MARCH 2022 Contract Number Contractor Contract Detail & Purpose Contract Value Start Date Duration of Contract Budgeted (Yes/No) PD46852 Local
  Government Appointments Temp
  staff hire 143,000.00 1/02/2022 12 weeks Y PE20882 Audit
  Office of NSW External
  audit 133,397.00 2/02/2022 39 weeks Y PE21329 Technology
  One Software
  support and maintenance 59,497.00 1/03/2022 52 weeks Y PE20584 Otis
  Elevator Company Lift
  upgrade 81,678.92 1/02/2022 52 weeks Y PE21489 Rightside
  Creative Solutions Pty Ltd Supply
  and install parklets 94,380.00 18/03/2022 6 weeks Y Contract Number Contractor Contract Detail & Purpose Contract Value Start Date Duration of Contract Budgeted (Yes/No) PS06012 Cardno
  (NSW/ACT) Pty Ltd Asset
  Registers & Valuations 60,893.80 25/03/2022 6 weeks Y PE21582 Abundance
  International Pty Ltd T/as Stars on Ice Hire
  Ice Skating Rink 195,664.70 4/07/2022 3 weeks Y Notes: 1.
  Minimum reporting level is 1% of estimated income from continuing operations
  or $50,000, whichever is the lesser. 2.
  Contracts to be listed are those entered into during the quarter and have yet
  to be fully performed, excluding contractors that are on Council's Preferred
  Supplier list. 3.
  Contracts for employment are not required to be included. 4.
  Where a contract for services etc was not included in the budget, an
  explanation is to be given (or reference made to an explanation in another
  Budget Review Statement). Investment Summary as at 31 March 2022 In accordance
with Regulation 212 of the Local Government (General) Regulation 2005 ,
details of Wagga Wagga City Council’s external investments are outlined
below. Institution Rating Closing
   Balance Invested 28/02/2022 $ Closing
   Balance Invested 31/03/2022 $ March EOM Current Yield % March EOM % of Portfolio Investment Date Maturity Date Term (months) At Call Accounts NAB AA- 364,830 299,063 0.10% 0.18% N/A N/A N/A CBA AA- 7,871,771 1,843,324 0.10% 1.11% N/A N/A N/A CBA AA- 10,630,102 16,131,570 0.15% 9.67% N/A N/A N/A Macquarie Bank A+ 9,044,285 9,048,200 0.60% 5.42% N/A N/A N/A Total
  At Call Accounts 27,910,989 27,322,157 0.30% 16.38% Short Term Deposits Community First NR 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.00% 0.60% 7/12/2021 7/07/2022 7 Total
  Short Term Deposits 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.00% 0.60% Medium Term Deposits RaboBank A+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.16% 0.60% 5/06/2017 6/06/2022 60 AMP BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.95% 1.20% 30/11/2020 30/05/2022 18 Westpac AA- 3,000,000 0 0.00% 0.00% 10/03/2017 9/03/2022 60 Auswide BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.85% 1.20% 6/10/2020 6/10/2022 24 BOQ BBB+ 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.20% 1.20% 4/01/2022 4/01/2024 24 BOQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.50% 0.60% 1/06/2018 1/06/2022 48 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.32% 1.20% 28/06/2021 29/06/2026 60 BOQ BBB+ 3,000,000 3,000,000 3.25% 1.80% 28/08/2018 29/08/2022 48 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.80% 1.20% 15/11/2021 17/11/2025 48 P&N Bank BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.30% 0.60% 20/11/2018 21/11/2022 48 Bendigo-Adelaide BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 3.25% 0.60% 30/11/2018 30/11/2022 48 Newcastle Permanent BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 2.70% 1.20% 23/04/2019 26/04/2022 36 BoQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.40% 0.60% 22/05/2019 23/05/2022 36 BoQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.15% 0.60% 8/07/2019 10/07/2023 48 Auswide BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.95% 0.60% 12/08/2019 12/08/2022 36 Judo Bank BBB- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.90% 0.60% 10/09/2019 9/09/2022 36 Auswide BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.72% 0.60% 3/10/2019 4/10/2022 36 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 2.03% 1.20% 6/11/2019 6/11/2024 60 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.83% 1.20% 28/11/2019 28/11/2024 60 Judo Bank BBB- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.30% 0.60% 3/12/2021 4/12/2023 24 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.75% 0.60% 6/01/2020 8/01/2024 48 BOQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.00% 0.60% 28/02/2020 28/02/2025 60 ING Bank A 2,000,000 0 0.00% 0.00% 2/03/2020 2/03/2022 24 Macquarie Bank A+ 2,000,000 0 0.00% 0.00% 9/03/2020 9/03/2022 24 Police Credit Union NR 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.20% 0.60% 1/04/2020 1/04/2025 60 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.85% 0.60% 29/05/2020 29/05/2025 60 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.86% 0.60% 1/06/2020 2/06/2025 60 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.75% 1.20% 25/06/2020 25/06/2025 60 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.75% 1.20% 25/06/2020 25/06/2025 60 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.60% 1.20% 29/06/2020 28/06/2024 48 ICBC A 3,000,000 3,000,000 1.25% 1.80% 30/06/2020 30/06/2022 24 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.42% 1.20% 7/07/2020 8/07/2024 48 ICBC A 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.50% 1.20% 17/08/2020 18/08/2025 60 BoQ BBB+ 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.25% 0.60% 7/09/2020 8/09/2025 60 BoQ BBB+ 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.25% 1.20% 14/09/2020 15/09/2025 60 NAB AA- 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.60% 0.60% 14/09/2021 14/09/2023 24 AMP BBB 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.95% 0.60% 26/11/2020 25/05/2022 18 AMP BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.95% 1.20% 7/12/2020 6/06/2022 18 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.20% 0.60% 7/12/2020 8/12/2025 60 Warwick CU NR 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.75% 0.60% 29/01/2021 30/01/2023 24 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.95% 1.20% 29/01/2021 29/01/2026 60 NAB AA- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.08% 0.60% 22/02/2021 20/02/2026 60 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.25% 1.20% 3/03/2021 2/03/2026 60 Summerland CU NR 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.75% 0.60% 29/04/2021 28/04/2023 24 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.40% 1.20% 21/06/2021 19/06/2026 60 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.65% 1.20% 25/06/2021 26/06/2023 24 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.32% 1.20% 25/06/2021 25/06/2026 60 ICBC A 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.32% 0.60% 25/08/2021 25/08/2026 60 NAB AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 0.65% 1.20% 31/08/2021 31/08/2023 24 AMP BBB 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.00% 1.20% 18/10/2021 17/10/2024 36 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.56% 1.20% 30/11/2021 29/11/2024 36 Westpac AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 2.00% 1.20% 8/02/2022 10/02/2025 36 P&N Bank BBB 0 2,000,000 2.40% 1.20% 9/03/2022 10/03/2025 36 P&N Bank BBB 0 2,000,000 2.00% 1.20% 10/03/2022 11/03/2024 24 MyState BBB 0 2,000,000 2.20% 1.20% 2/03/2022 3/03/2025 36 Total
  Medium Term Deposits 84,000,000 83,000,000 1.64% 49.76% Floating Rate Notes -
  Senior Debt Westpac AA- 3,051,148 3,033,609 BBSW +
  114 1.82% 24/01/2019 24/04/2024 63 NAB AA- 2,026,267 2,016,343 BBSW +
  104 1.21% 26/02/2019 26/02/2024 60 Westpac AA- 2,527,896 2,509,081 BBSW +
  88 1.50% 16/05/2019 16/08/2024 63 Suncorp-Metway A+ 1,258,863 1,249,822 BBSW +
  78 0.75% 30/07/2019 30/07/2024 60 ANZ AA- 2,016,173 2,000,984 BBSW +
  77 1.20% 29/08/2019 29/08/2024 60 HSBC AA- 2,526,440 2,502,159 BBSW +
  83 1.50% 27/09/2019 27/09/2024 60 Bank Australia BBB 1,509,348 1,504,316 BBSW +
  90 0.90% 2/12/2019 2/12/2022 36 ANZ AA- 1,512,852 1,499,696 BBSW +
  76 0.90% 16/01/2020 16/01/2025 60 NAB AA- 2,017,062 1,999,503 BBSW +
  77 1.20% 21/01/2020 21/01/2025 60 Newcastle Permanent BBB 1,114,606 1,100,551 BBSW +
  112 0.66% 4/02/2020 4/02/2025 60 Macquarie Bank A+ 2,015,094 1,990,945 BBSW +
  84 1.19% 12/02/2020 12/02/2025 60 BOQ Covered AAA 558,264 552,415 BBSW +
  107 0.33% 14/05/2020 14/05/2025 60 Credit Suisse A+ 1,311,843 1,307,557 BBSW +
  115 0.78% 26/05/2020 26/05/2023 36 UBS A+ 1,511,541 1,493,923 BBSW +
  87 0.90% 30/07/2020 30/07/2025 60 Bank of China Australia A 1,506,876 1,499,295 BBSW +
  78 0.90% 27/10/2020 27/10/2023 36 CBA AA- 1,998,526 1,970,191 BBSW +
  70 1.18% 14/01/2022 14/01/2027 60 Rabobank A+ 1,998,916 1,970,425 BBSW +
  73 1.18% 27/01/2022 27/01/2027 60 Newcastle Permanent BBB 998,565 986,564 BBSW +
  100 0.59% 10/02/2022 10/02/2027 60 NAB AA- 2,398,153 2,377,134 BBSW +
  72 1.43% 25/02/2022 25/02/2027 60 Bendigo-Adelaide BBB+ 0 1,648,893 BBSW +
  98 0.99% 17/03/2022 17/03/2025 36 Total
  Floating Rate Notes - Senior Debt 33,858,431 35,213,406 21.11% Fixed Rate Bonds ING Covered AAA 703,053 679,094 1.10% 0.41% 19/08/2021 19/08/2026 60 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 3,000,000 3,000,000 1.00% 1.80% 24/08/2021 16/12/2024 40 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 3,000,000 3,000,000 1.50% 1.80% 24/08/2021 15/12/2026 64 BoQ BBB+ 1,845,489 1,773,046 2.10% 1.06% 27/10/2021 27/10/2026 60 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.50% 1.20% 6/08/2021 15/12/2026 64 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.50% 0.60% 14/07/2021 15/12/2026 65 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.30% 1.20% 29/04/2021 15/06/2026 61 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.00% 1.20% 30/11/2020 15/12/2025 60 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 1,000,000 1,000,000 1.00% 0.60% 20/11/2020 15/12/2025 61 Northern Territory Treasury AA- 2,000,000 2,000,000 1.00% 1.20% 21/10/2020 15/12/2025 62 Total
  Fixed Rate Bonds 18,548,542 18,452,140 1.30% 11.06% Managed Funds NSW Tcorp NR 1,810,262 1,802,681 -0.42% 1.08% 17/03/2014 1/03/2027 155 Total
  Managed Funds 1,810,262 1,802,681 -0.42% 1.08% TOTAL CASH ASSETS, CASH EQUIVALENTS & INVESTMENTS 167,128,224 166,790,385 100.00% LESS: RIVERINA REGIONAL LIBRARY
  (RRL) CASH AT BANK 4,215,254 4,028,562 TOTAL WWCC CASH ASSETS, CASH EQUIVALENTS & INVESTMENTS 162,912,969 162,761,823 Council’s
investment portfolio is dominated by Term Deposits, equating to approximately
51% of the portfolio across a broad range of counterparties. Cash equates to
16%, with Floating Rate Notes (FRNs) around 21%, fixed rate bonds around 11%
and growth funds around 1% of the portfolio. Council’s
investment portfolio is well diversified in complying assets across the entire credit
spectrum. It is also well diversified from a rating perspective. Credit quality
is diversified and is predominately invested amongst the investment grade
Authorised Deposit-Taking Institutions (ADIs) (being BBB- or higher), with a
smaller allocation to unrated ADIs. All investments are within the defined Policy limits, as outlined in
the Rating Allocation chart below : Investment Portfolio Balance Council’s investment portfolio balance decreased
slightly over the past month, down from $162.91M to $ 162.76M. Monthly Investment Movements Redemptions/Sales – Council
sold the following investment securities during March 2022: Institution
   and Type Amount Investment Term Interest Rate Comments ING Bank (A) Term Deposit $2M 2
  years 1.50% This term
  deposit was redeemed on maturity and funds were used to purchase a new 3-yr
  MyState Bank term deposit (as below). Macquarie Bank (A+) Term Deposit $2M 2
  years 1.40% This term
  deposit was redeemed on maturity and funds were used to purchase a new 3-yr
  P&N Bank term deposit (as below). Westpac (AA-) Floating Rate Term
  Deposit $3M 5
  years BBSW
  + 110bps This floating
  rate term deposit was redeemed on maturity and funds were used to purchase a
  new 2-yr P&N Bank term deposit (as below). New Investments – Council
purchased the following investment securities during March 2022: Institution
   and Type Amount Investment Term Interest Rate Comments MyState Bank (BBB) Term Deposit $2M 3
  years 2.20% The MyState Bank rate of 2.20% compared
  favourably to the rest of the market for this term. The next best rate for
  this term was 2.10%. P&N Bank (BBB) Term Deposit $2M 3
  years 2.40% The P&N Bank rate of 2.40%
  compared favourably to the rest of the market for this term. The next best rate
  for this term was 2.25%. P&N Bank (BBB) Term Deposit $2M 2
  years 2.00% The P&N Bank rate of 2.00%
  compared favourably to the rest of the market for this term. The next best
  rate for this term was 1.91%. Bendigo Bank (BBB+) Floating
  Rate Note $1.65M 3
  years BBSW
  +98bps Council’s independent
  Investment Advisor advised this Floating Rate Note represented fair value
  with a potential grossed-up value of +110-115bps after 2 years. Rollovers – Council did
not rollover any investment securities during March 2022. Monthly Investment Performance Interest/growth/capital
gains/(losses) for the month totalled ($251,070), which compares unfavourably
with the budget for the period of $150,039 - underperforming budget for the
month by $401,109. Council’s
underperformance to budget for March was mainly due to a negative movement in
the principal value of its Floating Rate Note (FRN) portfolio. During the
month, the principal value of Council’s FRN portfolio fell by $313,918
(or -0.88%) as trading margins on these securities widened significantly
– as can be seen from the below table. It is worth
noting that these investment securities are senior ranking assets and high in
the bank capital structure. It is expected that, if held to maturity, these
FRN’s will pay back the original face value of the investment whilst
Council still receives its quarterly interest payments. Therefore, it is not
expected that Council will lose any capital or interest payments from its
current holdings within its FRN portfolio. In comparison to the AusBond Bank Bill Index* of 0.12%
(annualised), Council’s investment portfolio returned 1.20% (annualised)
for the month of March. Cash and At‑Call accounts returned 0.24%
(annualised) for the month. These funds are utilised for daily cash flow
management and need to be available to meet operating and contractual payments
as they fall due. Over the past
year, Council’s investment portfolio has returned 1.38%, outperforming
the AusBond Bank Bill index by 1.34%. *
The AusBond Bank Bill Index is the leading benchmark for the Australian fixed
income market. It is interpolated from the RBA Cash rate, 1 month and 3-month
Bank Bill Swap rates. Please note that the above
performance table does not take into account the negative movement from
Councils FRN portfolio for the month of March due to the fact that Council does
not expect to lose any of the capital value of these investments. Council’s
Independent Financial Advisor, Imperium Markets, will be presenting to
Council’s Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee at its 19 May 2022
meeting where Councillors will also be invited to attend. Report by Responsible
Accounting Officer I hereby certify that all of the above investments have been made
in accordance with the provision of Section 625 of the Local Government Act
1993 and the regulations there under, and in accordance with the
Investments Policy adopted by Council on 29 November 2021. Carolyn Rodney Responsible Accounting Officer Policy and Legislation Budget variations are reported in
accordance with Council’s POL 052 Budget Policy . Investments are
reported in accordance with Council’s POL 075 Investment Policy . Local
Government Act 1993 Section 625
- How may councils invest? Local
Government (General) Regulation 2021 Section 212 - Reports on council investments Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council This report
is a control mechanism that assists in addressing the following potential risks
to Council: · Loss
of investment income or capital resulting from ongoing management of
investments, especially during difficult economic times · Failure
to demonstrate to the community that its funds are being expended in an
efficient and effective manner Internal / External
Consultation All relevant
areas within the Council have consulted with the Finance Division in relation
to the budget variations listed in this report. The Finance
Division has consulted with relevant external parties to confirm Council’s
investment portfolio balances. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Capital Works Program 2021/22 to
  2031/32 Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-9 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 11
  April 2022 RP-10 RP-10 COUNCILLORS AND MAYORAL
REMUNERATION - LOCAL GOVERNMENT AMENDMENT BILL 2021 Author: Carolyn
Rodney General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: This report references
  the Local Government Amendment Bill 2021 and in particular addresses the
  provision of superannuation contributions for councillors. Recommendation That
  Council: a note the contents in Section 254B in the Local
  Government Amendment Bill 2021 regarding the ability for a Council to make
  payment of superannuation contributions to councillors b determine to pay superannuation to Wagga Wagga City
  Councillors at the superannuation guarantee rate Report The Local
Government Amendment Bill 2021 was passed by both Houses of Parliament in
May 2021.  This Act amends the Local Government Act 1993 to give effect to
certain recommendations made by the Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal
concerning the local government rating system; to make further provisions about
local government elections and certain terms of office; to provide for
superannuation contributions for councillors; and for related purposes. This report
proposes to address the provision of superannuation contributions for councillors. Section 254B
Payment for superannuation contributions for councillors in the attached
Local Government Amendment Bill 2021 notes: Prior to this
Local Government Amendment Bill 2021, as a councillor is deemed to not be an
employee for taxation and superannuation purposes, a Council was not obliged to
pay superannuation contributions for councillors. The Minister
for Local Government at the time this Bill was passed, Shelley Hancock stated
in her 17 May 2021 Message: As a former councillor
of 17 years, I know only too well the challenges of serving in the level of
government closest to the community. We also know that councillor remuneration is a significant factor in
encouraging more people, particularly women and young people, to stand
for their community and become councillors. Research shows that on average women retire with 47 per cent less
superannuation than men, so introducing superannuation for councillors will
help address a key financial concern for women considering running for council. The decision on whether to make superannuation contributions will be left to
each council, taking into account financial considerations, the views of
councillors and the expectations of their local community. Councils will be required to make the decision to pay councillors
superannuation by resolution at an open meeting of the council, thereby
ensuring public accountability and transparency. As noted in
Section 254B (4)(a) of the passed amendment bill, Council is required to resolve
at an open meeting on whether superannuation will be paid on top of the
Councillor allowance. This report
recommends commencing payment of superannuation to councillors at the
superannuation guarantee rate in order to appropriately remunerate the Elected
Members for their time and contribution. It is hoped
that payment of superannuation will lead to greater interest and more
nominations to serve on Council from all demographics, including women and
younger people, leading to greater representation on Councils by people from
traditionally underrepresented demographics. Financial Implications The payment of superannuation to
Wagga’s elected body using the relevant superannuation guarantee rate
equates to $24,292 in total for the 2022/23 financial year*. If resolved, Council staff will
factor this amount into the draft 2022/23 Long Term Financial Plan which is
being presented to Council at the 2 May 2022 Council meeting for public
exhibition, and subsequently to be formally adopted by Council at the 27 June
2022 Council meeting. *the additional superannuation
guarantee amount has been calculated using the 2021/22 Councillor and Mayoral
allowance rate, and using the superannuation guarantee percentage rate of 10.5%
for the 2022/23 financial year. Policy and Legislation Local Government
Act 1993 Local
Government Amendment Bill 2021 Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We have leaders
that represent us Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External Consultation N/A Attachments 1 ⇩ . Local Government Amendment Bill 2021 Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-10 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 11
  April 2022 RP-11 RP-11 REQUESTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Author: Carolyn
Rodney General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: Council has
  received one (1) fee waiver request which is detailed for Council’s
  consideration. Recommendation That
  Council: a       in
  accordance with Section 356 of the Local Government Act 1993, provide
  financial assistance of $105 to Southern Cross Austereo b        note
  the proposed budget available for financial assistance requests for the
  remainder of the 2021/22 financial year Report One (1) Section 356 financial assistance request is proposed
for consideration at the 11 April 2022 Ordinary Council meeting, which is shown
below: Southern Cross Austereo – Monopoly launch –
$105 Jennifer Hand, General Manager of Southern Cross Austereo
(SCA) in the attached email requests: “I am writing to request
a fee waiver for the booking of the grounds adjacent to the Visitor Information
Centre on Tarcutta Street, Wagga on Tuesday 12 th April 2022. 
We are collaborating with Wagga City Council for the launch of the Wagga
Monopoly Board Game.  On the day we will have Triple M & Hit FM
broadcasting from 8.30am-12pm.  As part of this event we will have the
Winning Moves team on site with a giant version of the Wagga Monopoly Board
game as well as a coffee van and free BBQ. Currently the promotional value
of this activation equals $5000.  As part of the promotion we are
crediting WWCC as our partners. We would be grateful if WWCC
could agree to the waiver of this fee. Thank you in advance. Jennifer General manager SCA” The above request
aligns with Council’s Strategic Plan “We are proud of where we live
and our identity” – Objective: “We have a strong sense of
place”. Southern Cross
Austero have not received any other financial assistance from Council this
financial year. Financial Implications Section 356 Budget Summary Previously advised unallocated balance of 2021/22
  Section 356 fee waiver financial assistance budget $9,957.44 Southern Cross Austero ($105.00) Balance of Section 356 fee waiver financial
  assistance budget for the remainder of the 2021/22 Financial Year $9,852.44 Policy and Legislation POL 078 –
Financial Assistance Policy Link to Strategic Plan Community
Place and Identity Objective: We are proud of
where we live and our identity Outcome: We have a strong
sense of place Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation Cross
Directorate consultation has been undertaken as required. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Southern Cross Austereo - Section 356
  Fee Waiver Request Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-11 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 11
  April 2022 RP-12 RP-12 ADDITIONAL SPECIAL VARIATION (ASV)
PROCESS FOR 2022/23 Author: Shay
Lucas Executive: Carolyn Rodney Summary: The purpose
  of this report is for Council to resolve to apply for a permanent 2022/23
  Additional Special Variation (ASV). Recommendation That
  Council: a       resolves
  to apply for a permanent Additional Special Variation (ASV) under Section
  508(2) of the Local Government Act 1993 due to the significant impact
  from the reduced 2022/23 rate peg on Council’s general purpose rate
  revenue b       if
  approved, will direct this additional ASV income as detailed in this report
  towards Council’s future year budget deficits from the adopted 2021/22
  Long Term Financial Plan c        has
  considered the impact of the ASV and deemed it is reasonable if approved for
  ratepayers and the community in 2022/23 and future years Report The recent
review conducted by the Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal (IPART) on
the 2022/23 rate peg calculation methodology, and announcement of a 0.7% rate
peg for Wagga Wagga City Council for 2022/23, has resulted in a significant
reduction on Council’s rate revenue for the Long Term Financial Plan. In reply to the
negative response from Council’s, the Office of Local Government (OLG)
and IPART have recognised that due to the delay with Council elections and the
late determination of the 2022/23 rate peg being lower than some Councils had
forecast, that Councils may not have had sufficient time to prepare special
rate variation applications within the normal timeframe, and therefore do not
have sufficient funds to pay for required infrastructure and services. As such the NSW
Government and IPART have agreed to a one-off additional round of 2022/23
Special Variation (ASV) applications from Councils under section 508(2) of the Local
Government Act 1993 . This ASV will
be available for Councils that can demonstrate the need for a special variation
to meet the obligations they set for 2022/23 in their adopted 2021/22
Integrated Planning and Reporting (IP&R) documentation. Councils seeking a
permanent special variation will also need to demonstrate the financial need
for the special variation to be included in their rate base on an ongoing
basis. Council had
forecast significant deficits from 2022/23 onwards for the remaining 9 years of
the 2021/22 Long Term Financial Plan which were based on the advised IPART rate
peg for 2021/22 of 2% plus 1% growth on rateable residential properties. As per the
guidelines set out in the ASV, Council’s can only apply for the lower of
the following: - 2.5%
(including population/growth factor) or - the
Council’s assumed 2022/23 rate peg as adopted in the 2021/22 LTFP which
is 2% (plus 1% population/growth on rateable residential properties). It is the intention
of Council to apply to IPART (until 29 April 2022) for a permanent 2% ASV (1.3%
ASV on top of existing 0.7% rate peg) on all rateable properties. If
Council’s application was approved (scheduled to be announced 21 June
2022), this could potentially result in additional rates revenue as estimated
in the following scenarios: One-off ASV for 2022/23 - the additional revenue from rates will include a one-off 2% ASV
for all rateable for 2022/23 only. The rate peg will then revert back to the
previously budgeted rate peg with no increase. This will result in additional
income as follows: 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26 2026/27 2027/28 2028/29 2029/30 2030/31 2031/32 630,214 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 One-off ASV for 2022/23 and retained permanently - the additional revenue from rates will include the 2% ASV for all
rateable properties applied every year of the Long Term Financial Plan. This
will result in additional income as follows: 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26 2026/27 2027/28 2028/29 2029/30 2030/31 2031/32 630,214 649,802 670,014 690,870 712,392 734,600 757,517 781,167 805,573 830,759 In addition to
this Council will apply a 1% population/growth factor estimated budget increase
on the ASV income for residential rateable properties only. It is proposed
to restrict any additional ASV income to a reserve to fund Council’s 9
year budgeted deficits from 2023/24 onwards in the draft 2022/23 LTFP. Financial Implications Due to the late
timing of the announcement by IPART of the successful ASV applications on 21
June 2022, this potential income as outlined in this report will be included as
2 scenarios in the 2022/23 Long Term Financial Plan document. If
Council’s application is approved by IPART, the additional income will
then be reported as part of the Monthly Financial Performance Report in 2022/23
as a budget variation and updated as part of the rolling 2022/23 Long Term
Financial Plan. The ASV funds
will be transferred to a separate reserve to be directed towards
Council’s future year budget deficits. Policy
and Legislation Local
Government Act 1993 Section
508(2) Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong leadership Outcome: We plan long term Risk Management Issues for
Council If this report
is not approved, Council will not be able to submit an application to IPART for
an ASV for 2022/23, which will result in a significant reduction to
Council’s general purpose rate revenue. The potential impact of this
reduced income is not meeting the obligations as set out in Council’s
Long Term Financial Plan and funding of required infrastructure and services. Internal / External
Consultation Internal
consultation was conducted with Councillor’s as part of the Budget
Workshop on the 4 April 2022. IPART will not
require Councils to demonstrate external community consultation outside of the
2022/23 Integrated Planning & Reporting (IP&R) standard public
exhibition period requirements as detailed below. The IP&R
suite of documents will be placed on public exhibition for a 28-day period
commencing from 3 May 2022 and concluding on 4 June 2022. As part of this
exhibition period a variety of communication methods will be used, to not only
promote the public exhibition period but also promote the purpose of the
documents. Mail Media Community Engagement Digital Rates
  notices insert Direct
  mail Letterbox
  drop Council news Media releases Print advertising TV/radio advertising One-on-one
  meetings Your Say
  website Community
  meetings Stakeholder
  workshops Drop-in
  sessions Surveys
  and feedback forms Social media Email newsletters Website Digital advertising TIER Consult x x x x x Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-13 RP-13 COUNCILLORS' WRITTEN RETURNS OF
INTEREST Author: Ingrid
Hensley General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: Clause 4.21
  of the Model Code of Conduct requires councillors to lodge a written return
  of interests within three (3) months of their election, unless they have
  submitted a return within the previous 3 months. Recommendation That the
  Register of Pecuniary Interest Returns, containing current returns of
  Councillors be tabled in accordance with Clause 4.21 of the Code of Conduct. Report Under the Code
of Conduct all councillors, members of county councils and voting
representatives of the boards of joint organisations must lodge a written
return of interests with the general manager (or the executive officer in the
case of joint organisations) within three months of their election or
appointment unless they have submitted a return within the previous three
months. Lodgement of
Declarations of Pecuniary Interest Returns was required by 22 March 2022.
Returns were received from all councillors as required by the Code.
Accordingly, Council’s register of Pecuniary Interest Returns 2022 is
submitted to this meeting of Council as prescribed by the Code. Under Clause
4.21 of the Code of Conduct, certain council officials, namely councillors and
designated persons, are required to disclose their personal interests in
publicly available returns of interests. These operate as a key transparency
mechanism for promoting community confidence in council decision making,
whether by councillors or by staff or others under delegation. A Pecuniary
Interest is described in Clause 4.1 of the Code as “an interest that
you have in a matter because of a reasonable likelihood or expectation of
appreciable financial gain or loss to you or a person referred to in clause 4.3
of the Code” . Under the Code
of Conduct, general managers and executive officers must maintain a register of
returns of interests and returns must be tabled at the first meeting of the
council or board of the joint organisation after they are required to be
lodged. Returns of interests must also be made publicly available free of
charge on councils’, county councils’ and joint
organisations’ websites, unless there is an overriding public interest
against disclosure of the information contained in them or to do so would
impose unreasonable additional costs on the council or joint organisation. Councils must
make all returns of interests publicly available in accordance with the
requirements of the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009, the Government Information (Public Access) Regulation 2009 and any
guidelines issued by the NSW Information Commissioner. The Register of
Pecuniary Interest Returns is available for inspection at Council’s Civic
Centre offices during ordinary business hours and will also be available on
Council’s website. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation The Wagga Wagga
City Council Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct) sets out the requirements in
relation to the completion and lodgement of pecuniary interest returns. Under
the Code of Conduct a person must also not make and lodge a return that the
person knows or ought reasonably to know is false or misleading in a material
particular. Complaints
about breaches of these requirements are to be referred to the Office of Local
Government (OLG) and may result in disciplinary action by the council, the
Chief Executive of OLG or the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal. - Local Government Act 1993 (NSW) - Wagga
Wagga City Council Code of Conduct - Government
Information (Public Access) Act 2009 (GIPA Act) - Government
Information (Public Access) Regulation 2009 (GIPA Reg) - IPC
Guidelines and Information Access Guidelines - Privacy
and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 or a Health Privacy Principle
under the Health Records and Information Privacy Act 2002 Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External
Consultation N/A Attachments 1 ⇩ . Councillor Disclosures of Interests - 2022 Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 RP-13 Report
  submitted to the Ordinary
  Meeting of Council on Monday 11
  April 2022 RP-14 RP-14 RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS/BUSINESS WITH
NOTICE Author: Scott
Gray General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: This report
  is to provide responses to Questions/Business with Notice arising from
  previous Ordinary Council Meetings. Recommendation That
  Council receive and note the report. Report The following is in response to Questions/Business with
Notice raised at previous Ordinary Council meetings. Councillor D Hayes requested further advice around a
  $29,000 grant that was rescinded by the State
  Government which was to be used to survey principals and parents about active
  travel to and from school for students, as well as trial some ways to further
  encourage kids riding and walking to school. With the funding now gone, are there
  any plans to try and still meet the objectives ourselves or through another
  funding source? At this stage there is no money to fund this in the
  budget. Council’s Road Safety Officer will submit a funding bid for
  2022/23 projects with Southern Region Transport for NSW. Councillor D Hayes would like to know if it has been
  investigated to a permanent sound system for Baylis St for uses like Mardi
  Gras, Anzac Day Parade? If so, how much? If not, can we find out how much? Council staff are unaware of any past investigations and
  project costings for a permanent sound system for Baylis Street. This request
  is currently unfunded, and not identified as something to investigate,
  however, it is suggested that it could be included in any future studies/consultations
  as part of main street master planning and/or main street infrastructure
  upgrades, if deemed a feasible project. Currently parades use their own music
  from floats or as part of the parade through musicians and performing bands
  provided. Councillor D
  Hayes advised of a reserve that connects Darri Street to Karoom Drive and
  Nara Place in Glenfield that people use to head to South City. It comes out
  in Darri Street along about 100m of units. Residents have complained that
  pedestrian traffi c on private property causes
  concern along the units and were wondering if a barrier can be installed and
  if so, whether that is council’s responsibility or the landowners? The reserve is a public reserve that is primarily used to
  convey stormwater. Part of the reserve is already fenced with the units. This
  fencing can be extended to Darri Street. Installation of fencing adjoining a
  public reserve is the responsibility of the private property holder as the
  Dividing Fences Act does not operate to impose any liability, or confer any
  rights, with respect to dividing fences on Council. Councillor
  D Hayes has been liaising with a number of young people in Wagga, the use of
  existing areas and facilities in different ways was discussed. One thing from
  those discussions is at the VMG there is no tables in lit areas including
  under the light tree, only seats. Is there a reason for this? Or can we look
  at this happening? Council can investigate putting a table and chairs
  setting under the tree. There is 6 table and chair settings in the park
  presently, 2 of these are next to the BBQ shelter which is lit. The table and
  chairs are located where they are, as the majority of use they experience are
  through daylight hours. Councillor D
  Hayes advised on the 28th of September 2020 council
  approved a plan to look at addressing social and community disadvantage in
  that report council committed to a range of tasks and focus areas. Councillor
  D Hayes requested an update of each of those areas and what we have achieved
  and not yet met? For example, reviewing the level of service of parks
  maintenance and the classification system. A future councillor bulletin will be provided that will
  have a table to detail responses provided from across Council’s
  Directorates. This will allow for enough time to gather the information on
  progress or what is yet to be addressed against the below focus areas listed
  in the action table of the report that Council received on addressing social
  and community disadvantage. · IP&R
  Framework Reporting and Council’s Community Strategic Plan · Council’s
  suite of strategic planning documents · Council’s
  Advocacy Plan · Council’s
  Strategic and Land Use Planning Instruments address provision of affordable
  and social housing supply against the needs of a growing population · Renewal
  of existing social and community housing estates · Renewal
  and maintenance of Open Space, Parks and Recreation spaces · Connectivity of footpaths and shared path networks · Access to Community Infrastructure · Council’s
  Crime Prevention Plan 2021 · Annual
  Grants and Events Strategy Criteria Weightings · Outreach
  Community and Cultural Public Programs · Waste
  Management - Bulky Waste Collection, Waste Education and Employment pathways · Participation and Access to Information · Increase
  community pride across Council’s suite of communication platforms Our open space mowing schedules are based on a 4-week
  program on all areas of Wagga regardless of the suburb. Unirrigated parklands and reserves through the LGA are
  mown every 4 weeks during growth season. Irrigated parks through the LGA are mown every 2 weeks
  through all suburbs. These schedules can vary due to weather and mechanical
  issues such as breakdowns due to the available plant, equipment and
  contractors. It is important to note that the last 2 years have seen higher
  than average rainfall which has lead to more demand for mowing, greater
  levels of growth across all areas. Councillor R
  Foley requested we look into Canterbury Bankstown Council's fleet of garbage
  trucks that has been fitted with cameras in a state-first ploy designed to
  detect road damage. It would assist with Road Audits and show ongoing damage
  and pick up ne w potholes. Minister for Customer
  Service Victor Dominello said the government is working with councils such as
  Wollongong and Liverpool to roll out the technology. Would this be a viable
  option for Wagga to reduce the number of potholes we have throughout the
  Local Government Area? At this point in time the technology is not quite ready
  to pursue further. Canterbury Bankstown's fleet of garbage trucks have been
  fitted with cameras, but the footage is being manually reviewed to assess the
  damage after receiving a tip-off. An A.I. solution is currently being
  investigated and Council will monitor its progress as it rolls out. Wagga
  Wagga City Council is in a contract with our service provider until 2 April
  2028. Financial Implications N/A Policy and Legislation Code of Meeting
Practice Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We have leaders
that represent us Risk Management Issues for
Council N/A Internal / External Consultation N/A Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 M-1 Committee
Minutes M-1 CONFIRMATION OF MINUTES AUDIT, RISK
AND IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE - 24 February 2022 and mid-year report for 2021-22 Author: Ingrid
Hensley General Manager: Peter Thompson Summary: The Audit,
  Risk and Improvement Committee is an advisory committee of Council. Th is Report seeks that Council endorse the recommendations
  made by the Committee at the meeting on 24 February 2022. Those
  recommendations relate to the role of the Committee in providing independent
  assurance and assistance to Council on financial reporting,
  risk management, internal controls, governance, and internal and external
  audit and accountability responsibilities. Recommendation That
  Council endorses the recommendations contained in the minutes of the Audit,
  Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting held on 24 February 2022. Report Audit,
Risk and Improvement Committee (ARIC) Meeting on 24 February 2022 The minutes
of the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting held on 24 February 2022
are presented to Council for adoption. As part of
the review of the Minutes, the Chairperson has made the following additional
comments, in relation to consideration of RP-11 ARIC End of Term Report. Request that Section 7 of the Report
be amended to reflect the Committee’s strong recommendation to the
incoming ARIC members that urgent action be taken to source in-house internal
audit expertise and that, in the meantime, contractors be used to implement the
agreed Internal Audit Plan. In relation
to RP-4 Riverina Regional Library 2020/21 Financial Statements - Client Service
Report, the Chairperson also wished to commend the accounting staff for
achieving an excellent report. End of
Term Report Section 8 of
the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Charter requires that at the end of
the term of independent members, the outgoing Chairperson provide a
comprehensive written report. That report outlines the activities undertaken
during the Committee’s term and the matters they wish to draw to the
attention of the incoming Committee, in particular for the purpose of planning.
Accordingly, the mid-year report 2021/22 has been developed for the
Committee’s review and endorsement. In accordance
with section 17 of the Audit Risk and Improvement Committee Charter, a
self-assessment of the Committee was carried out in September 2021 to review
its performance for the year. The detailed results were presented to the
Committee at its November 2021 meeting. A high-level summary is included in the
mid-year report together with key considerations of the survey. Financial Implications Council has
granted certain authorities to the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee within
the scope of its role and responsibilities, as defined within its Charter. As
an advisory committee to Council, the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee has
no authority to action items that may have a budget and/or resource implication
outside of this authority unless Council resolves to adopt the recommendations. Policy and Legislation Audit, Risk and
Improvement Committee Charter Link to Strategic Plan Community
Leadership and Collaboration Objective: We have strong
leadership Outcome: We are
accountable and transparent Risk Management Issues for
Council The Audit, Risk
and Improvement Committee assists Council by monitoring its risk exposure and
determining if management systems have appropriate risk management processes in
place. Internal / External
Consultation The
Chairperson’s report on the Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee Meeting
held on 24 February 2022 was provided to Councillors in the Bulletin on 25
March 2022. The Chairperson’s Report is an engagement mechanism between
the Committee and elected body and which provides additional commentary and
context in relation to the reports considered at that meeting. Attachments 1 ⇩ . Audit, Risk and Improvement Committee
  Meeting Minutes 24 February 2022 2 . Audit, Risk and
  Improvement Committee Mid-Year Report 2021-22 - Provided under separate cover Report submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 M-1 Reports submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council to be held on Monday 11 April 2022 . QUESTIONS/BUSINESS WITH
NOTICE Report submitted to the Confidential Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 CONF-1 Confidential
Reports CONF-1 EXPRESSION OF INTEREST - RIVERSIDE
FOOD VAN Author: Ben
Creighton General Manager: Peter Thompson This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act
1993, which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business
relating to the following: - (d)
(i)     commercial information of a confidential nature
that would, if disclosed, prejudice the commercial position of the person who
supplied it. Report submitted to the Confidential Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 CONF-2 CONF-2 EXPRESSION OF INTEREST - SALE OF
LAND AT COORADOOK STREET, NORTH WAGGA WAGGA Author: Matthew
Dombrovski General Manager: Peter Thompson This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act
1993, which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business
relating to the following: - (c)          information
that would, if disclosed, confer a commercial advantage on a person with whom
the Council is conducting (or proposes to conduct) business. Report submitted to the Confidential Meeting of Council on Monday 11 April 2022 CONF-3 CONF-3 APPOINTMENT OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MEMBERS Author: Ingrid
Hensley General Manager: Peter Thompson This report is CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with Section 10A(2) of the Local Government Act
1993, which permits the meeting to be closed to the public for business
relating to the following: - (a)         personnel
matters concerning particular individuals. Reports submitted to the Ordinary Meeting of Council to be held on Monday 11 April 2022 .