Building resilience for future floods | Queensland Audit Office Skip to main content About us Our role and mandate Our strategic plan Our performance and annual report Our people Our values Our history Audit program Forward work plan Brisbane Games report series Requests for audits Understanding an audit Audit standards Audit exemptions Reports and resources Reports to parliament Status of recommendations Better practice Fact sheets Interactive dashboards Events Our cyber and digital resources Resources for audit committees Information for elected members Careers Careers FAQs Career opportunities Graduates Graduates FAQs Blog Contact us Building resilience for future floods Home Audit program Forward work plan Building resilience for future floods Forward work plan Brisbane Games report series Requests for audits Understanding an audit Audit standards Audit exemptions Flooding causes more damage in Queensland than any other natural disaster. For example, the estimated social, financial, and economic cost to Queensland from the 2022 floods was $7.7 billion. The 2023 State Disaster Risk Report identifies that managing flood risk is Queensland’s highest priority. The report states that climate projections indicate extreme rain events will become more intense, influencing the risk of both flash and riverine flooding. To support recovery and resilience, the Queensland and Australian governments have invested in grant programs. This includes the $741 million Resilient Homes Fund, which is intended to help homeowners affected by floods in late 2021 and early 2022, and the Queensland Betterment Fund, which has supported more than 930 projects across 70 local government areas. The Queensland Betterment Fund has provided over $1 billion to strengthen infrastructure and improve disaster resilience. Who we plan to audit Queensland Reconstruction Authority Department of Housing and Public Works selected local governments. Other entities who may form part of this audit include: Department of State Development, Infrastructure and Planning. Audit Objective In this audit, we will assess how effectively the Queensland Reconstruction Authority and select local governments are using grant funding to make Queensland more flood resilient. Area of focus Environment and resources Parliamentary Committee Local Government, Small Business and Customer Service Committee Planned Anticipated tabling: to be advised Contribute now Subscribe to our news and blog Email Address * Name Help Site map Copyright Publication scheme Disclosure log Information privacy Disclaimer Accessibility Other languages Linkedin Copyright © 2026 Queensland Audit Office. We acknowledge the Traditional Custodians of the land on which we operate, live and gather as employees, and recognise their continuing connection to land, water and community. We pay respect to Elders past and present.