    Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements
    - Infrastructure Recovery
    UPDATE NO.2024-02 | UPDATED 04 APRIL 2024

    Tropical Cyclone Kirrily, associated rainfall and flooding, 25 January -
    26 February 2024
    This event impacted predominately the western portion the region. Emergency works for this event are
    nearing completion, with the recognised end date of these works being 4 May (90 days after the event
    was declared).

    To date, 705 emergency works damage locations have been collected across the region, with the
    majority (however, not all) requiring additional rectification works. Inspections of the unsealed road
    network have been completed; sealed road inspections are yet to be undertaken.

    Detailed analysis of the data collected to enable formation of a restoration claim will require external
    support; a request for quote for this support is to be initialised.

    South Queensland Severe Storms and Rainfall, 24 December 2023 -
    3 January 2024
    This event impacted predominately the eastern portion the region.

    Emergency works for this event are completed. Over 850 emergency works damage locations have
    been collected across the region; with the majority of these relating to vegetation, which have been
    rectified. Inspections of the unsealed road network have been completed; sealed road inspections are
    yet to be undertaken.

    Detailed analysis of the data collected to enable formation of a restoration claim will require external
    support to develop; a request for quotes for this support is to be initialised.

    Clearing of disaster vegetation from Council-controlled road reserves was substantially completed by
    mid-February 2024. Disaster vegetation collection in the north-east of the region commenced late
    January 2024 for vegetation directly impacting private residences or impacting the ability to access the
    residence. The majority of the collection of privately generated vegetation has been collected.

    Further vegetation works within Council-controlled reserves (including road reserves) continue,
    addressing hang ups and removal of trees that are considered at high risk of failure.

    Southern Queensland Flooding, 6 - 20 May 2022
    Emergency works were completed in August 2022 with 490 damages repaired. The submission has
    been approved by the QRA.

    The May 2022 sealed roads submission which includes 114 roads has been approved by QRA with
    works currently being completed by a combination of Council road maintenance and capital works crews.
    A contract for the remaining works has been awarded and is currently under construction.




PO Box 25 | 82 Brisbane Street, Beaudesert QLD 4285 | Telephone 07 5540 5111                 scenicrim.qld.gov.au
Construction works at Head Road are complete and the road was reopened to public traffic in late
December 2023.

Landslip remediation works have been approved by QRA at Knapp Creek Road, Wild Pig Creek Road,
Beechmont Road, Cannon Creek Road, Knoll Road, Mocker Road, Philip Mountain Road and
Stacey Road. Detailed design for all the May 2022 landslips have been awarded with design ongoing.
Knapp Creek Road, Beechmont Road, Wild Pig Creek Road, Mocker Road, Philp Mountain Road and
Stacey Road landslip designs have been completed with construction tenders received and pending
contract award. An extension of time request has been approved by QRA for works to be completed by
31 December 2024.

Tamrookum Creek Road floodway replacement has been approved by QRA, and the detailed design is
being finalised.

Allandale Road was approved for betterment works. Council's capital works crew have completed site
preparation works with pavement stabilisation now being programmed.

Two unsealed road submissions have been approved with the priority gravel roads being completed and
the remainder currently programmed.

South East Queensland Rainfall and Flooding,
22 February - 5 April 2022
Emergency works were completed in late May 2022 with 2,076 damages repaired. The submission has
been approved by QRA.

A submission for all minor works on floodways has been approved by QRA. The works are anticipated to
be completed by both Council and contractor crews. A floodway in the submission on Chalk Road was
identified for detailed design as the repairs are required to meet waterway barrier works requirements;
with design is underway. An extension of time request has been approved by QRA for works to be
completed by 31 December 2024.

All unsealed road submissions for grading and gravel resheeting works have been approved by QRA
with works being undertaken by Council crews in conjunction with maintenance works. Approximately
93% of works across 159 roads has been completed to date.

The Shelf Road submission has been lodged and approved by QRA. Concept design has been
completed. Detailed design is continuing with onsite geotechnical investigations completed
November 2023, enable design finalised. An extension of time request has been approved by QRA for
works to be completed by 31 December 2024.

Detailed design has been finalised for eight of the eleven landslips, as approved by QRA, being
Black Gully Road, Christmas Creek Road, Knapp Creek Road, Stacey Road, Stockyard Creek Road,
Tabletop Road – Site 1, Tabletop Road – Site 2, and Wild Pig Creek Road; with the remaining three
being Price Creek Road, The Hollow Road and Upper Coomera Road, yet to be completed. For the
completed design projects, construction tenders have been received and pending contract award. An
extension of time request has been approved by QRA for works to be completed by 31 December 2024.

A recent landslip was identified during construction on Roadvale Teviotville Road. A submission was
lodged on 7 November 2023 and approved by QRA. A detailed design is ongoing with onsite
geotechnical investigations to be completed end of April 2024.

Teviotville Road (Priority Sealed Road 01 submission) Betterment project has been completed.




Page 2                                                                              scenicrim.qld.gov.au
The original scope of works for the Priority Sealed Roads Submission 02 and 03 were previously
approved by QRA. Submission 03 is nearing completion and Submission 02 was reissued to QRA with
an incorporation of betterment to stabilise pavements. This submission was approved in January 2024
and minor design works are currently underway with construction work programmed.

The floodways at Cryna Road, Back Creek Road, Chalk Road and Allens Road have been approved by
QRA. Allens Road floodway design has been completed, with Cryna Road, Chalk Road and
Back Creek Road continuing. An extension of time request has been approved by QRA for works to be
completed by 31 December 2024.

Round Mountain Road has been approved for restoration and betterment works. With a change to the
pavement surface from unsealed to sealed, a design speed review with signage is required and
underway. Works are programmed to be completed by Council's capital works crews.

Central, Southern and Western Queensland Rainfall and Flooding,
10 November - 3 December 2021
Emergency works were completed late February 2022 with 722 damages repaired. The submission has
been approved by QRA.

The submission for the sealed and unsealed road repairs has been completed with the acquittal
documentation being drafted.

The Black Gully Road landslip submission has been approved by QRA and design is complete. The
construction contract has been awarded, with construction to commence in April 2024.

Tartar Creek floodway has been approved by QRA, with design to be finalised following development
assessment approval; which is in progress. An extension of time request has been approved by QRA
until 31 December 2024.

Southern Queensland Severe Weather, 20 - 31 March 2021
The emergency works has been approved by QRA.

All sealed and unsealed road repair works have been completed and acquittal reports approved by QRA.

Design of floodway replacements at Cainbable Creek and Snake Gully Creek Roads are complete. The
construction contract has been awarded and works are underway.

Design of landslip remediation projects at Philp Mountain and Flanagan Reserve Roads are complete.
The construction contract has been awarded with construction to commence in April 2024.

An extension of time request for works to be completed by 31 December 2024, was lodged and is
awaiting QRA approval.

South East Queensland Coastal Trough, 12 - 15 December 2020
The emergency works has been approved by QRA.

Reconstruction works for this event have been completed and the acquittal has been approved by the
QRA.




Page 3                                                                             scenicrim.qld.gov.au
Queensland Bushfires, September - December 2019
The approved scope of guardrail replacement works was further impacted by the Southern Queensland
Flooding, 6–20 May 2022 event. QRA has transferred and combined all the scope to be reported against
the Southern Queensland Flooding, 6–20 May 2022 event and this event will be closed out with QRA.




         Assistance for this project is jointly funded by the Australian and Queensland governments
                            through the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements.




Page 4                                                                                 scenicrim.qld.gov.au
