Small Business Support Grant Bondi Beach December 2025 – Guidelines | Service NSW Home Guidelines Small Business Support Grant Bondi Beach December 2025 – Guidelines These guidelines relate to the Small Business Support Grant Bondi Beach December 2025. They detail the purpose of the grant, who is and is not eligible, how applications will be assessed and how the grant will be operated. Listen These grant guidelines relate to the Small Business Support Grant Bondi Beach December 2025 . 1. About the program 1.1 In response to the Terrorist Act, Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) assistance has been activated in one (1) local government area: Waverley. The Program is jointly funded by the New South Wales (NSW) Government and Commonwealth Government with the objective of providing assistance to Small Business within the identified Impacted Area that suffered Business Disruption as a result of the Terrorist Attack. 1.2 Service NSW is the Administering Agency, and the NSW Reconstruction Authority is the Policy Owner. 1.3 The Program is being administered in accordance with the requirements of the Grants Administration Guide 2024. Service NSW and the NSW Reconstruction Authority are jointly responsible for compliance with the Grants Administration Guide . 2. Available funding 2.1 In line with these guidelines, the maximum grant amount for Eligible Small Businesses is $25,000 , as follows: funds of $5,000 will be available to eligible applicants on the provision of the evidence listed in clause 7.2(a) ; funds between $5,001 and $25,000 will be available to eligible applicants on the provision of the evidence in clause 7.2(a) and 7.2(b) . 2.2 One application with up to two claims may be made by each Small Business up to the maximum grant amount of $25,000 , noting each claim must be linked to the Critical Incident. Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations DRFA Category D Maximum Grant Amount $25,000 Tier 1 – Initial payment on the basis of evidence required $5,000 Tier 2 – Subsequent payment on the basis of evidence required Up to $20,000 3. Timeframe and key dates 3.1 Applications for this Program will be accepted from 23 December 2025. 3.2 Applications for this Program will close at 4pm on 30 March 2026. 3.3 The Program will close on 30 June 2026. 4. How funding may be used 4.1 Funds may be used to help cover costs associated with clean-up, repair, replacement of lost or damaged stock, or loss of income associated with Business Disruption caused by the Critical Incident. See clause 16 for definitions. 5. Eligibility criteria 5.1 To be eligible, the applicant must: be a Small Business; be located and operating in the identified Impacted Area at the time of the Terrorist Attack; have suffered Business Disruption as a result of the Terrorist Attack; have a valid and active ABN as on 14 December 2025; employ less than the equivalent of 20 full-time employees; and irrespective of any other clause, not be: i. a Public Company; ii. a body corporate under the Body Corporate and Community Management Act 1997 ; or iii. a Superannuation Fund. 5.2 Eligible Small Businesses To be eligible as a Small Business, the business must: i. in the case of a Sole Trader with no employees, the sole trader must derive at least 50 per cent ( 50% ) of their income from the business; ii. must be registered for GST, and; iii. have an Aggregated Annual Turnover exceeding $75,000 for the year ended June 2025. own a Small Business located in the Impacted Area; have been engaged in carrying on the Small Business when affected by the Terrorist Attack; not be part of a national chain. Individual franchises may be eligible if they meet the criteria in clauses 5.1 and 5.2(a)(i)-(iii); In circumstances where clause 5.2(a) iii is not met, then the business may still be eligible as a Small Business if: i. the business is in start-up mode immediately prior to the Terrorist Attack (e.g. premises being prepared but trading had not yet commenced); and ii. there has been substantial capital investment in the business (e.g. salary/wages from employment or monies from elsewhere) for building up the business such that it was close to becoming a viable commercial operation immediately prior to the Terrorist Attack. Note: If you were operating in the Impacted Area at the time of the event but do not meet the eligibility criteria, please contact Service NSW for assistance on 13 77 88 . 6. Eligible separate businesses and co-location 6.1 Eligible Separate Businesses Where an applicant operates more than one distinct Small Business under a single ABN, they may apply for assistance in respect of each business, provided each one meets the criteria of an Eligible Separate Small Business up to the maximum amount of $25,000 per business. In determining an application under clause 6.1(a) Service NSW may consider factors including (without limitation): i. separate staffing arrangements; ii. dedicated plant, equipment or stock, iii. distinct accounting and insurance arrangements; iv. use of separate business names; and v. the commercial viability and autonomy of each business, assuming the other businesses cease to operate. 6.2 Co-location Where two or more independent and separately owned and registered Small Businesses operate from the same premises, each may receive the maximum available grant amount providing applicants can demonstrate that: i. they are independent and separately owned and registered with their own ABN  from the other Small Business at that premises; ii. they are each eligible for the grant in their own right, in line with clause 5 (as applicable); iii. they are claiming for different expenses or loss compared to the other Small Business who are operating at the same premises; and iv. the expenses that they are claiming are essential to their operations. 7. Evidence 7.1 Evidence of location within the Impacted Area If the Small Business owns the property, the applicant must provide: i. a copy of a Council Rates Notice for the property impacted by the Critical Incident, received up to 12 months prior to the Critical Incident for which you are claiming expenses; or ii. other evidence to demonstrate ownership. If the Small Business leases the property, the applicant must provide: i. a copy of the current lease agreement (lease agreement must confirm that the applicant is responsible for meeting the costs being claimed); or ii. other evidence to demonstrate lease of property. Where the documents listed under clauses 7.1(a) and 7.1(b) cannot be provided, the Small Business may instead submit at least two of the following types of documents from different categories below as evidence of location within the Impacted Area at the time of the Critical Incident: i. utility bills (e.g. electricity, gas, water) issued within 6 months prior to the relevant Critical Incident; ii. rental payment records or a rental ledger issued within 6 months prior to the relevant Critical Incident; iii. insurance documents in effect or issued within 12 months prior to the relevant Critical Incident; iv. supplier invoices dated within 3 months prior to the relevant Critical Incident; v. vehicle registration notice issued within 12 months prior to the relevant Critical Incident (excluding Digital Vehicle Registration); vi. contractor licences current at the time of the relevant Critical Incident. Each document must: i. be in the name of the Small Business; and ii. include the address of the affected premises. This list is indicative, not exhaustive. Other documents that support evidence of location as at the date of the relevant Terrorist Attack may be accepted at the discretion of Service NSW, the NSW Reconstruction Authority, or their service providers. 7.2 Evidence of Business Disruption 7.2a Applications must be supported by evidence listed under clause 7.1 at the time of making the application. Note: The initial payment of $5,000 made on the basis of a valid and active ABN at the time of the Terrorist Attack, and location within the Impacted Area. This payment is intended to support immediate recovery needs and remains subject to post-payment verification. The customer must retain evidence of all related expenses and/or income loss to be provided to Service NSW on request. Where eligibility criteria has not been met, Service NSW may recover the funds in accordance with these Guidelines and Terms and Conditions . If the total of all claims exceeds $5,000 , the applicant must provide evidence to substantiate full amount claimed, including for any amounts already paid under previous claims, including: i. For physical damage: quotes, estimates or invoices for repairs or replacements; and/or photographs clearly showing the damage incurred. Note: Items/damages or loss covered by insurance for this event will not be claimable. ii. For financial impact of the event: Letter from a qualified independent accountant clearly stating: actual turnover for the period 14 December 2025 to 13 January 2026, actual turnover for the period 14 December 2024 to 13 January 2025, and the resultant decline in turnover. Other evidence may include: evidence of cancellation of booking data (for bookings made prior to 14 December 2025), please contact SNSW for assistance on 13 77 88 . 7.2b To demonstrate eligibility as a Small Business, applicants may be asked to provide, among other things: i. evidence of employee numbers, such as payroll summaries or Single Touch Payroll records confirming the number of full-time equivalent employees; ii. evidence of turnover such as Income tax return for the financial year ending 2025 or 2024. iii. for sole traders, evidence the applicant is deriving at least 50 per cent of their income from the business such as a copy of their income tax return for the last financial year.; in the case of start-up or seasonal businesses , a statutory declaration outlining the business’s operational status and intention to be the applicant’s primary source of income, annexing supporting documents such as investment records, invoices, or equipment purchase receipts. Note: If you were operating in the Impacted Area at the time of the event but are unable to provide all necessary evidence, please contact Service NSW for assistance on 13 77 88 . 8. Application and claiming process 8.1 The initial claim for $5,000 must be submitted in person by or with the support of an Authorised Service NSW representative at an SNSW Centre or established NSW Government Community Hub. 8.2 The second claim from $5,001 to $25,000 may be made through the applicant’s SNSW Business Profile by an Authorised Person via the MyServiceNSW Account on the Service NSW website or mobile application. Note: support in making an application can be provided by contacting Service NSW on 13 77 88 , or by visiting a Service NSW Service Centre, Mobile Service Centre or any other centre that is authorised to receive applications, for example a Community Hub . 9. Assessment, approval process and decision makers 9.1 Service NSW will assess applications in the order in which they are lodged. Incomplete applications will not enter the assessment queue until all required information is provided. Applications may be saved and submitted when complete using the ‘save and resume’ function. 9.2 Applicants will receive notification of the outcome. Applications will be assessed and decided by Service NSW against the eligibility criteria in these guidelines. 9.3 Service NSW may request further information from you or from any business or individual you have engaged as necessary to assess an application and to verify any information provided. Failure to comply with such request may lead to an application being refused. 9.4 Service NSW reserves the right to refuse an application where eligibility criteria are not met, or where the applicant does not or cannot provide sufficient information or evidence to determine if the eligibility criteria of these guidelines have been met. 9.5 Applications submitted may be subject to audit activities by Service NSW or its agents, the purpose of which will be to determine compliance with the Program. 9.6 Before applying for financial assistance under this Program, applicants should seek advice from their legal, business or financial advisers about the tax implications of this financial assistance. 9.7 The Executive Director Recovery (or delegate), NSW Reconstruction Authority, is the designated decision-maker. The decision-maker is responsible for making determinations regarding grant criteria and policy intent. This includes approving Program policies and processes for assessment, risk management, quality assurance and auditing, and escalation of any compliance issues. 9.8 For the purposes of verification and assessment for exceptional circumstances, applicant information may be shared with the NSW Small Business Commissioner. 10. Disputes and complaints 10.1 Applicants are entitled to dispute the assessment outcome of the application by requesting an internal review of the assessment . Disputes can be lodged via the Service NSW website , in person at a Service NSW centre or by contacting Service NSW on 13 77 88. 10.2 Applicants disputing the assessment outcome of the application are entitled to an internal review of the application. Applications for an internal review must be made within 28 calendar days of being notified of the outcome. Disputes lodged after this time may not be accepted by Service NSW. 10.3 The internal review will be conducted by a separate Service NSW team who will review the application against the eligibility criteria and the Program, including any new evidence that the applicant may provide. 10.4 Applicants may also lodge complaints via the Service NSW website, in person at a Service NSW centre or by contacting Service NSW on 13 77 88 .  Service NSW will manage complaints in accordance with the Service NSW Complaint Handling Policy . 11. False and misleading information 11.1 Applicants must declare the information provided in the application is true and correct. Penalties may apply for false or misleading information. Where false or misleading information is provided, applications may be referred to law enforcement. 11.2 By lodging the claim form, the applicant is declaring that the information provided in the application form and supporting documentation is true and accurate. 11.3 If any information provided in an application or supporting documentation is found to be inaccurate, untrue or misleading, legal action may be taken against the applicant, including action to recover the funds. 12. Important information 12.1 These guidelines are correct at the time of publishing. 12.2 Applicants must retain and provide on request, until one year following the closing of the program, all documentation and evidence related to eligibility and the application requirements outlined in these guidelines. 12.3 The Australian Government, NSW Reconstruction Authority and Service NSW reserve the right to amend, alter or change these guidelines at any time, and it is the responsibility of the applicant to check the relevant website prior to application. All iterations of the public facing grant guidelines and the dates of publication will be available on the Service NSW website. 12.4 The guidelines that apply to the application will be the guidelines that are current at the time your application is assessed by Service NSW. 12.5 These guidelines must be read in conjunction with the Program Terms and Conditions , which set out the terms on which the application will be assessed and on which funding may be provided and used. By applying to receive a grant, an applicant agrees to be bound by these guidelines and the Terms and Conditions. 12.6 Funds obtained other than in accordance with these guidelines and the Terms and Conditions will be repayable on demand. 13. Evaluation 13.1. The Category D – Small Businesses Support Grants will be evaluated as part of a package of programs delivered under AGRN 1240 .  The Evaluation will include deliverables of a Process Evaluation Report and a combined Outcomes and Economic evaluation report. The evaluation of the Small Business Support Grants program will be guided by an Overarching– Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. The Framework will include a Program Logic, Key Evaluation Questions and a data collection plan (including outcomes, indicators, collection methods and data collection responsibilities). Funded eligible entities will be requested to participate in the evaluation and provide data per the Funding Agreement, Program Guidelines and monitoring and evaluation guidance documentation provided by the DFRA. 14. Assurance and acquittal 14.1 The State/Territory must keep appropriate evidence/documentation to support Commonwealth audit and assurance activities to ensure amounts being claimed are eligible for reimbursement under the DRFA. 14.2 For the Recovery Grant for Small Business Support Grants program evidence requirements could include, but are not limited to: Funding request (including Category D request form) and approval letters; Local news/media articles regarding the delivery of initiatives; Grant/loan applications and grant/loan guidelines; Governance arrangements; and/or Transaction listings used to reconcile invoices. 14.3 For assurance purposes, State/Territory agencies and Australian Government agencies may, at any time, request documentation from funding recipients and State/Territory Government agencies to evidence compliance with any aspect of the DRFA and other applicable laws, policies, guidelines, and regulations. 15. Public acknowledgement and publication of grants information 15.1 Under the DRFA, the announcement of assistance must be done jointly by the Commonwealth and NSW, unless otherwise agreed. 15.2 Prior agreement must be reached with the Commonwealth on the nature and content of any subsequent events, announcements, promotional material or publicity relating to DRFA assistance measures. This includes but is not limited to: media releases, events, social media, signage and advertising. 15.3 Key information about the grants awarded must be published on the NSW Government Grants and Funding Finder in accordance with the requirements of the Grants Administration Guide . 16. Definitions 16.1 Terms or expressions starting with a capital letter have the meaning given in this section and include all grammatical forms e.g. “Business” includes “Businesses”, unless the context indicates otherwise. 16.2 Defined terms ABN means an Australian Business Number issued by the Australian Government to businesses and organisations. Administering Agency means the responsible agency/department/body for assessing and administering the Program. Authorised Person means a person authorised to apply on behalf of the Small Business. This may include a director, owner or other relevant person. Business Disruption means the business was directly affected by the Critical Incident, including but not limited to where the business was subject to enforced closure or temporary suspension due to a police, emergency services, or other related order and was affected through one or more of the following: (a) physical damage or destruction to property or assets of the business, (b) a demonstrable decline in turnover during the period 14 December 2025 to 13 January 2026 compared with the corresponding period in the immediately preceding year. Critical Incident means Terrorist Act - Under the DRFA this is referred to as an action or a series of actions committed in Australia which the Minister has determined is a terrorist act for the purposes of an eligible disaster under these arrangements. Without limiting the matters to which the Minister may have regard in determining whether the action or series of actions is a terrorist act, the Minister may have regard to: the definition of a terrorist act under section 100.1 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 , and if available, the advice of other Commonwealth agencies. In the event of one or more acts, the Minister may determine two or more related acts to be a single terrorist act. Eligible Separate Small Business means a separate small business owned by the same small business owner that would be a commercially viable and autonomous business if the other separate businesses operated by the eligible entity ceased to operate. Grants Administration Guide means the Grants Administration Guide mandated by the NSW Government, which provides an overview of the grants administration process, overarching principles that apply to all NSW Government grants, and mandatory requirements that must be complied with when administering grants. Impacted Area means the area defined by the NSW Government for assistance under the Critical Incident. Policy Owner means the agency responsible for the grant design including overseeing development and approval of the eligibility criteria, assessment and compliance methodologies as well as grant evaluation. Program has the meaning given in clause 1.1. Public Company has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Small Business means a business that meets the criteria in clause 5.2 and includes an Eligible Separate Small Business. Terms and Conditions means the terms and conditions applicable to the Program, as published on the Service NSW website. Turnover means the current GST turnover as defined by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) and the GST Act. Back to top Last published: 8 April 2026 An error occurred loading the sharing widget. Load the sharing widget An error occurred loading the footer. Reload the footer