 
 
1 
 
DISASTER RECOVERY FUNDING 
ARRANGEMENTS 2018 
  
 
  
  
2 
 
Table of Contents 
1. Definitions and Interpretation .............................................................................................................. 4 
2. Introduction ......................................................................................................................................... 14 
3. Basic principles for assistance ............................................................................................................. 14 
4. Relief and Recovery Assistance Measures .......................................................................................... 15 
5. Conditions for Commonwealth assistance.......................................................................................... 23 
6. Essential public asset reconstruction .................................................................................................. 25 
7. Variance between estimated and actual reconstruction costs for essential public asset 
reconstruction ..................................................................................................................................... 30 
8. Independent Technical Review of an essential public asset reconstruction project  ......................... 33 
9. Claiming ............................................................................................................................................... 34 
10. State assurance activities .................................................................................................................... 37 
11. Commonwealth Assurance Activities .................................................................................................. 44 
12. Seeking exemption or appealing a decision ........................................................................................ 47 
Schedule A – Category A measures ............................................................................................................... 49 
Schedule B – Independent Technical Review ............................................................................................... 60 
Appendix A – Technical Reviewer Report ..................................................................................................... 71 
Appendix B – Technical Reviewer Checklist .................................................................................................. 72 
Appendix C – Brief for Technical Reviewer ................................................................................................... 73 
 
 
  
  
3 
 

 
  
  
4 
 
1. Definitions and Interpretation 
1.1. Definitions 
1.1.1. All definitions relevant to these arrangements  are set out below:  
arrangements This document; Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements 2018.  
appropriate 
assessment methods 
An assessment that would support a small business’, primary producer’s 
or a non-profit organisation’s claim for eligibility under these arrangements 
and support the small business’, primary producer’s or non-profit 
organisation’s ability to repay the loan. An assessment may include: site 
visits to establish the small business’, primary producer’s or non-profit 
organisation’s pre and post disaster context and situation, review of tax 
returns for the preceding financial years, comparison of budgeted net 
income to historical financial statements, confirmation of existing bank 
loans and facilities to identify possible peak debt i ssue(s) throughout the 
12 month period prior to the eligible disaster, loan security, and proof of 
an insurance claim.  
ASAE3150 ASAE3150 Assurance Engagements on Controls, issued by the Auditing 
and Assurance Standards Board.  
ASA 580 Auditing Standard ASA 580 Written Representations,  issued by the 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.  
ASA 701 Auditing Standard ASA  701 Communicating Key Audit Matters in the 
Independent Auditor’s Report on a Financial Report, issued by the Auditing 
and Assurance Standards Board.  
ASA 800 Auditing Standard ASA 800 Special Considerations -Audits of Financial 
Reports Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks, 
issued by the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.  
bad debts Amount of loan which is unlikely to be paid and is treated as a loss.  
budget funded Those state entities or agencies that receive a funding allocation from the 
state. 
claim pack The financial reporting pack provided by the department to the state each 
year. 
Commonwealth The Australian Government.  
Commonwealth 
concessional interest  
rate 
50 per cent of the ten- year Treasury bond rate averaged from 1  April to 
30 June for the preceding financial year. The rate is based on data 
published by the Reserve Bank of Australia.  
 
  
  
5 
 
Community Recovery 
Officer 
One twelve month full -time equivalent officer per eligible disaster 
employed by the state to work with affected communities to:  
• identify recovery needs  
• assist in accessing relevant information and resources to develop 
community recovery programs, and  
• provide community capacity building as required.  
control objectives The control objectives  established within these arrangements , as required 
under ASAE3150. 
cost estimation The process of developing the estimated reconstruction cost  for the 
reconstruction of essential public assets  by building up the component 
elements including:  
• scoping and defining the works required for reconstruction  of the 
essential public asset   
• applying relevant assumptions and exclusions, and 
• using available historical data of actual costs  (that is, benchmark 
pricing) and/or supplier quotes to estimate the cost of reconstruction  
works. 
criteria The criteria established within these arrangements , as required under 
ASAE3150. 
department The Commonwealth  department responsible for administering these 
arrangements.  A reference to the department includes a reference to the 
Secretary and appropriate Senior Executive Service officials of the 
department. 
direct result Affected by an eligible disaster and located within the affected 
geographical area that has been notified by the state in the form provided 
by the department. Applicants outside the affected geographical area who 
do not operate in the affected geographical area are not eligible, including 
those with a supply chain relationship to the affected geographical area.  
Disaster Recovery 
Funding Arrangements 
Management System 
The processes and controls implemented by a state agency and third party 
organisations (where applicable) in relation to an estimated reconstruction 
cost, as defined by these arrangements . 
eligible disaster A natural disaster or terrorist act for which:  
• a coordinated multi -agency response was required, and 
• state expenditure  exceeds the small disaster criterion.  
eligible measure A relief or recovery assistance measure specified in these arrangements, 
or a cost to the state under clause 8.1 of these arrangements . 
 
  
  
6 
 
eligible undertaking A body that:  
• is one of the following:  
- a department or other agency of a state government, or 
- established by or under state legislation for public purposes 
(for example, a local government), and 
• in the operation of the asset provides services free of charge or at a 
rate that is 50 per cent or less of the cost to provide those services.  
emergency works Urgent activities necessary following an eligible disaster to temporarily 
restore an essential public asset to enable it to operate/be operated at an 
acceptable level of efficiency to support the immediate recovery of a 
community, and take place:  
• prior to the state commencing essential public asset reconstruction 
works in accordance with these arrangements , or  
• prior to or at the same time as immediate reconstruction works  and 
where no essential public asset reconstruction works are required.  
employee A person, including family members, who the business directly engages, 
controls and pays a wage for labour.  
essential public asset An asset which must be a transport or public infrastructure  asset of an 
eligible undertaking  which, the state  considers and the department agrees, 
is an integral part of a state’s infrastructure and normal functioning of a 
community. 
essential public asset 
reconstruction works 
Reconstruction works on an essential public asset directly damaged by an 
eligible disaster  for which an estimated reconstruction cost has been 
developed. 
Essential Public Asset 
Function Framework 
The Essential Public Asset Function Framework  as defined by these 
arrangements  (refer to clause 6.3).  
estimated 
reconstruction cost 
The estimated cost of reconstruction  of an essential public asset  damaged 
by an eligible disaster  and calculated in accordance with these 
arrangements . 
farm enterprise An activity listed in Division A of the Australian New Zealand Standard 
Industrial Clas sification 2006 (ANZSIC) 1292.0 (Revision 2.0) published by 
the Australian Bureau of Statistics.  
habitable Refers to a residential property being fit for human habitation, possessing 
basic amenities in working order and not being in substantial disrepair.  
immediate 
reconstruction works 
Immediate reconstruction activities following an eligible disaster to fully 
reconstruct an essential public asset,  and where no essential public asset 
reconstruction works are required.  
 
  
  
7 
 
Independent Technical 
Review 
A review of estimated reconstruction costs in accordance with these 
arrangements . 
long-term viability The ability of a small business’, primary producer’s or non-profit 
organisation’s operation to continue to operate and be able to meet its 
liabilities as they become due. Long -term would generally be considered a 
period greater than three years.  
loss of income Net income which would have been earned if the small business, primary 
producer or non-profit organisation  had not been interrupted by the eligible 
disaster based on past performance during similar periods. Net income 
takes into account the costs that would have been incurred to earn the 
income. Examples of what could result in a loss of income would be 
cancellation of bookings and where customers cannot physically reach the 
small business, primary producer or non-profit organisation due to 
damaged public infrastructure.  
market response The process of developing estimated reconst ruction cost for reconstruction  
of essential public assets  by tender or competitive bidding.  
Minister The Commonwealth Minister  responsible for these arrangements . 
must Indicates a mandatory requirement.  
natural disaster A natural disaster is one, or a combination of the following rapid onset 
events: 
• bushfire 
• earthquake 
• flood 
• storm 
• cyclone 
• storm surge 
• landslide 
• tsunami 
• meteorite strike, or  
• tornado. 
needy individual An individual who is in urgent and genuine need of financial assistance.  
non-budget funded Those state entities or agencies that do not receive a funding allocation 
from the state and operate independently through public and private tender 
processes. 
 
  
  
8 
 
non-profit organisation An incorporated charity or non- profit entity which is registered  with the 
Australian Charities and Non -Profits Commission (ACNC) or an equivalent 
state regulatory body. This may include:  
• non-profit schools (that is, those run by a church) 
• religious institutions  
• homeless hostels  
• aged persons homes  
• organisations relieving the special needs of people with disabilities  
• community child care centres  
• cultural societies  
• environmental protection societies  
• neighbourhood associations  
• public museums and libraries  
• scouts 
• sports clubs  
• surf lifesaving clubs, or  
• traditional ser vice clubs. 
participating 
authorised deposit 
taking institution 
Corporations which are authorised under the Banking Act 1959. These 
include banks, building societies and credit unions.  
person An individual, a body politic, or a body corporate.  
pre-disaster function As defined by the Essential Public Asset Function Framework . 
primary producer An individual , partnership, trust or company which:  
• has a right or interest in a farm enterprise, and  
• contributes a part of his, her or its labour and capital to the enterprise, 
and  
• derives at least 50 per cent of his, her or its income from the enterprise.  
Primary producers  are defined as those that are listed under the 
Australian New Zealand Standard In dustrial Classification 2006 (ANZSIC) 
1292.0 (Revision 2.0) Codes 01 (Agriculture), 02 (Aquaculture), 
03 (Forestry and Logging), 04 (Fishing, Hunting and Trapping) and 
05 (Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing Support Services).  
program of works Comprises all  essential public asset reconstruction works for all eligible 
disasters in a single financial year.  
 
  
  
9 
 
project Reconstruction  works to be undertaken following an eligible disaster on: 
a) a single essential public asset , or 
b) a group of related essential public assets which could be contracted 
jointly 
within local government areas notified for the relevant eligible measure . 
public infrastructure An asset that is an integral part of a state’s infrastructure and is associated 
with health, education, justice or wel fare. 
reasonable assurance A reduction in assurance engagement risk to an acceptably low level in the 
circumstances of the assurance engagement, as the basis for a positive 
form of expression of the auditor’s conclusion. Reasonable assurance 
means a high but not absolute level of assurance.  
reconstruction The restoration or replacement of an essential public asset.  
re-damaged essential 
public asset 
An essential public asset is considered to be re -damaged if it suffers 
additional damage from a subsequent eligible disaster  which occurs after 
the development of an estimated reconstruction cost for the preceding 
eligible disaster.  
reinstatement Activities undertaken by a recipient of a Category C recovery grant to 
assist in the re- establishment of the enterprise to substantially the same 
position it was in prior to the eligible disaster,  in order to aid the enterprise 
to continue/resume normal trading/production as soon as possible.  
small business A business, other than a farm enterprise, which employs fewer  than 
20 full‑time equivalent staff. That is, the sum total of all standard hours 
worked by all employees (whether full -time or part -time) is less than the 
number of standard hours which would be worked by 20 full ‑time 
employees, as defined by the Australi an Bureau of Statistics.  
A small business  does not include a sole trader small business where 
50 per cent or less of the sole trader’s income comes from that business.  
small disaster criterion For the purposes of these arrangements, the amount of $240,000 or an 
amount as published by the department.  
 
  
  
10 
 
special circumstances means the following:  
• geotechnical conditions that could not reasonably have been foreseen 
or investigated in the design period 
• previously unidentified indigenous and cultural heritage discoveries 
• previously unidentified heritage discoveries  
• delays caused by subsequent eligible disasters  
• environmental conditions that could not have reasonably been foreseen 
(for example, threatened species discovery) 
• safety threats that could not reasonably have been foreseen 
(for example, asbestos discovery), or  
• critical reduction in water availability that could not reasonably have 
been foreseen or investigated in the design period.  
state All Australian states, including the Australian Capital Territory  and the 
Northern Territory.  
state agency The agency responsible for the central co -ordination of these 
arrangements within the state. 
state appointed auditor A state audit office or an independent auditor appointed by the state for the 
purposes of complying with these arrangements . 
state expenditure Total state expenditure for eligible measures in relation to eligible disasters 
that have occurred within a financial year that a state— or body established 
by or under state legislation for public purposes (for example, a local 
government) — is claiming for Commonwealth reimbursement under these 
arrangements.  
Estimated reconstruction costs claimed as state expenditure 
State and local government estimated reconstruction costs established in 
accordance with these arrangements must be recorded against the 
financial year in which the estimated reconstruction costs  have been 
established.  
State expenditure actually spent and/or incurred as a liability 
For state expenditure  actually spent on eligible measures  and/or incurred 
as a liability on eligible measures , the expenditure must be recorded 
against the financial year in which the expenditure is actually spent or 
incurred as a liability. It is not to be recorded against the year in which the 
state expends cash, conducts an audit, submits an audited claim to the 
Commonwealth or reimburses its agencies or local governments.  
When recording local government expenditure as state expenditure, 
a state incurs a liability at the time the loca l government undertakes an 
eligible measure, and it is at that point that the liability must be recorded by 
the state.  
 
  
  
11 
 
 State expenditure actually spent on eligible measures and/or incurred as a 
liability on eligible measures , may also include expenditure for:  
• emergency works for essential public assets , including salaries and 
wages and internal plant and equipment used for the emergency works  
• immediate reconstruction works for essential public assets , including 
salaries and wages and internal p lant and equipment used for the 
immediate reconstruction works  
• expenditure on eligible measures for non-monetary assistance 
(for example, goods, waived revenue, free or subsidised services) 
• expenditure on eligible measures for concessional interest rate loans  
• expenditure for salaries and wages, and internal plant and equipment 
use, of non-budget funded state entities or agencies undertaking 
eligible measures not related to the reconstruction of essential public 
assets under clause 4.3 of these arrangements  
• certain expenditure for salaries and wages, and internal plant and 
equipment use, of state budget funded entities or agencies for eligible 
measures not related to the reconstruction of essential public assets 
under clause 4.3 of these arrangements , such as:  
- overtime for state employees outside of normal working hours  
- employment costs for contractors or temporary  
(fixed-term) employees  
- other costs for contractors or temporary (fixed- term) employees such 
as travel expenses, allowances, accommodation, and on -costs such 
as superannuation entitlement and workers compensation  
- costs of back- filling state employees who have been seconded to 
assist with eligible disaster activities  
- additional fuel and oil expenditure, and maintenance costs required 
as a direct consequence of using internal plant and equipment.  
Note: If any part of state expenditure  is in the form of concessional interest 
rate loans, a component of the  Commonwealth assistance will  also be in 
the form of a concessional interest rate loan to the state — see clause 9.5.  
 
  
  
12 
 
 Ineligible state expenditure 
State expenditure does not include:  
• amounts which the state has recovered or may recover from any source 
• amounts which a person is liable to reimburse to the state (including 
amounts attributable to GST)  
• amounts directly or indirectly receivable from the Commonwealth under 
a joint Commonwealth -state financial arrangement or some other form 
of specific purpose financial assistance to a state 
• amounts attributable to administrative expenditure for which the state 
would have been liable for had the eligible disaster not occurred 
• core disaster response activities which are the responsibility of, and 
budgeted for by, the state 
• amounts that have been transferred from a state to a department or 
other agency of the state government for possible expenditure on an 
eligible measure, but have not yet been spent by that department or 
agency, and 
• profit margins to an eligible undertaking . 
technical reviewer Professional(s) meeting the criteria to conduct an Independent Technical 
Review in accordance with these arrangements . 
terrorist act An action or a series of actions committed in Australia which the Minister 
has determined is a terrorist act for the purposes of an eligible disaster 
under these arrangement s.  
Without limiting the matters to which the Minister may have regard in 
determining whether the action or series of actions is a terrorist act, the 
Minister may have regard to:  
• the definition of a terrorist act under section 100.1 of the Criminal  Code 
Act 1995, and 
• if available, the advice of other Commonwealth  agencies. 
In the event of one or more acts, the Minister may determine two or more 
related acts to be a single terrorist act. 
thresholds The first threshold is 0.225 per cent of the state’s total general government 
sector revenue and grants in the financial year two  years prior to the 
relevant financial year; and the second threshold is 1.75 times the state’s 
first threshold.  
transport An asset that is an integral part of a state’s infrastructure and includes 
essential public assets associated with roads, road infrastructure (including 
footpaths, bike lanes, and pedestrian bridges), bridges, tunnels and 
culverts. 
 
  
  
13 
 
working capital The amount required to continue the small business’, primary producer’s 
or non-profit organisation’s operations for the next 12 months or until the 
next major income is received, and may include:  
• salaries and wages  
• paying creditors  
• paying rent and rates  
• procuring fodder or water for livestock or produce  
• procuring alternative transport for livestock and produce, and  
• fuel and other supplies essential to the business or primary production 
operation. 
1.2. Interpretation 
1.2.1. In these arrangements:  
a) The singular includes the plural and vice versa, and a gender includes other  genders. 
b) Clause and subclause headings are inserted for convenience only and have no effect in 
limiting or extending the language of the provisions of these arrangements . 
c) Notes and examples to the terms and conditions of  these arrangements form part of the 
arrangements but if there is any inconsistency between a term or condition of these 
arrangements and a note or guideline for example, the term or condition prevails. 
d) Another grammatical form of a defined word or expression has a correspond ing 
meaning. 
e) If a day on or by which an obligation must be performed or an event must occur is not a 
business day, the obligation must be performed or the event must occur on or by the 
next business day.  
1.2.2. The definitions and interpretation clauses also appl y to any guideline or other instrument 
issued under these arrangements.  
 
  
  
14 
 
2. Introduction 
2.1. Aim and overview of the Disaster Recovery Funding 
Arrangements 
2.1.1. Natural disasters  or terrorist acts  may result in large- scale expenditure by state governments in 
the form of disaster relief and recovery payments and infrastructure reconstruction . To assist 
with this burden, the Commonwealth  has made arrangements to provide financial assistance to 
the states in certain circumstances. Usually the ass istance is in the form of partial 
reimbursement of state expenditure and estimated reconstruction costs . 
2.1.2. These arrangements are administered by the department.   
2.1.3. Commonwealth  assistance under these arrangements  is not intended to fund every possible 
relief and recovery assistance measure delivered by a state. 
2.1.4. These arrangements  identify the relief and recovery assistance to which the Commonwealth  
will financially contribute.  
2.1.5. These arrangements  should be read in conjunction with any relevant schedules or guidelines. 
3. Basic principles for assistance 
3.1. Principles for assistance to states 
3.1.1. States are best placed to identify the type and level of assistance to make available following a 
natural disaster  or a terrorist act , in accordance with their responsibility for disaster and 
emergency management. States are not bound or limited by the assistance measures 
identified in, or funding available under these arrangements  and should make available 
whatever assistance they deem  necessary regardless of whether it is eligible for 
reimbursement.  
3.1.2. The Commonwealth’s assistance is intended to support certain relief and recovery measures 
delivered by the states in relation to eligible disasters  which complement other state-based 
strategies, such as insurance and natural disaster mitigation planning and implementation.  
3.1.3. In carrying out, or contributing to, the cost of eligible measures , the state must act consistently 
with the principles that:  
a) recovery is a shared responsibility for indiv iduals, households, businesses and 
communities, as  well as for governments where access to capital or appropriate strategies 
of natural disaster mitigation are considered  
b) its assistance is not to supplant, or operate as a disincentive for, self -help by way  of either 
access to capital or appropriate strategies of natural disaster mitigation  
c) the assistance is designed to achieve an ef ficient allocation of resources,  and 
d) those affected in the same way by the same eligible disaster  should receive the same 
assistance, within the limitations of these arrangements . 
 
  
  
15 
 
3.1.4. The Commonwealth  considers that natural disaster mitigation, in partnership with the states, 
is an important principle to be advanced under these arrangements . This principle is consistent 
with good accountability, and provides assurance to communities and the general public of the 
ongoing commitment of all Australian governments to “safeguard” the well -being of 
communities through providing effective levels of disaster prevention and protection.  
3.1.5. States have a responsibility to put in place insurance arrangements  which are cost effective for 
both the state and the Commonwealth . 
3.1.6. The financial exposure borne to taxpayers, by all levels of government, under these 
arrangements  should be minimised.  
4. Relief and Recovery Assistance Measures 
4.1. General requirement 
4.1.1. For any of the below relief and recovery assistance measures to be an eligible measure  they 
must be carried out  to alleviate damage or distress arising as a direct result of an eligible 
disaster. 
4.1.2. If states are unsure of the eligibility of a relief and recovery activity under these arrangements , 
states must write to the department using Form Attachment E: Eligibility Enquiry Form . 
4.2. Category A measures 
4.2.1. States have 24 months from the end of the financial year in which the relevant eligible disaster 
occurred to incur state expenditure for Category  A measures.  
4.2.2. A Category A measure  is one or more of the following forms of emergency assistance for 
individuals: 
a) emergency food, clot hing or temporary accommodation 
b) repair or replacement of essential items of furniture and personal effects  
c) essential repairs to housing, including temporary repairs and repairs necessary to restore 
housing to a habitable condition 
d) demolition or rebuilding to restore housing to a habitable condition 
e) removal of debris from residential properties to make them safe and habitable 
f) extraordinary counter disaster operations for the benefit of an affected individual  
g) personal and financial counselling 
h) the employment of a Community Recovery Officer . 
4.2.3. A Community Recovery Officer under clause 4.2.2 h) is only to be employed by a state in 
regard to an eligible disaster when the state is providing emergency assistance for individuals 
under clause 4.2.2 a), b) and c) above. 
  
 
  
  
16 
 
4.2.4. Where the state is providing emergency assistance for individuals under  clause 4.2.2 a), b) 
and c) above in regard to an eligible disaster,  the state may write to the Minister seeking 
approval for the employment of additional Community Recovery Officer/s beyond the one 
activated under clause  4.2.2 h).  The state must demonstrate that the nature, scale and 
circumstances of the eligible disaster (including the number of impacted local government 
areas, known fatalities and injuries of individuals, private pr operties and/or businesses 
destroyed or damaged) warrant the employment of additional Community Recovery Officer/s . 
[See Schedule A – Category A measures  for further information on the types of costs that can be claimed 
under Category A.]  
[See Guideline 2 – Counter disaster operations  for further information on clause  4.2.2 f) above.] 
4.3. Category B measures 
4.3.1. State expenditure for Category  B measures is as follows: 
a) for emergency works and immediate reconstruction works states can incur state 
expenditure in the period of three (3) months from the date the essential public asset 
becomes accessible by the state 
b) for essential public asset reconstruction works states must establish estimated 
reconstruction costs in the period of up to 12  months from the end of th e financial year in 
which the relevant eligible disaster occurred 
c) for all other Category  B measures  states can incur state expenditure in the period of 
24 months from the end of the financial year in which the relevant eligible disaster occurred. 
4.3.2. A Category B measure is one or more of the following forms of assistance:   
a) counter disaster operations for the p rotection of the general public  
b) emergency works  for essential public assets 
c) immediate reconstruction works for essential public assets  
d) essential public asset reconstruction works for which the state develops an estimated 
reconstruction cost in accordance with these arrangements  
e) concessional interest rate loan to small businesses or primary producers whose assets 
have been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster   
f) concessional interest rate loan to needy individual s or non-profit organisation s whose 
assets have been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster  
g) concessional interest rate loan to small business es, primary producer s or a non-profit 
organisation s that have suffered a significant loss of income as a direct result of an 
eligible disaster 
h) interest rate subsidy to small businesses or primary producers  whose assets have been 
significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster   
i) interest rate subsidy to  needy individual s or non-profit organisations  whose assets have 
been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster   
j) interest rate subsidy to small business es, primary producers  or non-profit organisations  that 
have suffered a significant loss of income as a direct result of an eligible disaster  
k) freight subsidy to primary producers whose assets have been significantly d amaged 
l) grant to needy individual s or non-profit organisation s whose assets have been significantly 
damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster.  
 
  
  
17 
 
Counter disaster operations for the protection of the general public 
4.3.3. The requirements for counter disaster operations for the protection of the general public are: 
a) the costs are associated with counter disaster operations carried out to protect communities 
from the eligible disaster and ensure public health and safety in public areas , and 
b) the costs exceed the costs which a state could reasonably have expected to incur for these 
purposes, in accordance with the definition of extraordinary costs as outlined in  
Guideline 2 – Counter disaster operations , and 
c) the operations carried out w ere intended to reduce the need for other forms of assistance 
under these arrangements (i.e. to reduce state expenditure on other eligible measures). 
Emergency works for essential public assets 
4.3.4. Emergency works  activities occur following an eligible disaster, and are carried out by the state 
within three (3) months from the date the essential public asset becomes accessible to the 
state.  
4.3.5. Emergency works activities are urgent activities necessary to temporarily restore an essential 
public asset to enable it to operate/be operated at an acceptable level of efficiency to support 
the immediate recovery of a community, and are completed before essential public asset 
reconstruction works take place in accordance with these arrangements .  
4.3.6. Where the state decides that no essential public asset reconstruction works are required, the 
state can carry out emergency works activities prior to or at the same time as immediate 
reconstruction works. In this instance, the emergency works and immediate reconstruction 
works must be completed within the defined time limits. 
4.3.7. Emergency works  activities include, but are not limited to, initial grading, pothole repairs, 
temporary gravel re -sheeting, replacement of rock, and traffic management.  
Immediate reconstruction works for essential public assets 
4.3.8. Immediate reconstruction works  occur following an eligible disaster , and are carried out by the 
state within three (3) months from the date the essential public asset becomes accessible to 
the state.  
4.3.9. Immediate reconstruction works are immediate activities carried out by the state to fully 
reconstruct an essential public asset , and occur following a decision of the state that no 
essential public asset reconstruction works are required.  
Essential public asset reconstruction 
4.3.10. The reconstruction of an essential public asset must be based on the estimated reconstruction 
cost developed through market response or cost estimation .  Further detail on this measure is 
outlined in clause  6 of these arrangements.  
4.3.11. An essential public asset directly damaged by an eligible disaster, or a re-damaged essential 
public asset may be reconstructed to its pre-disaster function.  
Concessional interest rate loans 
4.3.12. In response to an eligible disaster , eligible applicants must either receive a concessional 
interest rate loan or an interest rate subsidy. The state will assess the types of assistance to be 
provided to the eligible applicants. See sub- clauses 4.3.26–4.3.34 for interest rate subsidies.  
 
  
  
18 
 
4.3.13. A concessional interest rate l oan must be made directly from the state to the eligible applicant.  
Concessional interest rate loan to small businesses or primary producers whose assets 
have been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster 
4.3.14. For an applicant to be eligible, the state must be satisfied that:  
a) the applicant’s assets (including fodder) have been significantly damaged as a direct result 
of an eligible disaster , and 
b) the applicant’s small business  or primary producer operation was viable prior to the eligible 
disaster and the assistance will ensure it continues to be viable. The state should implement 
appropriate assessment methods  to establish past and future  
long-term viability,  and 
c) the applicant is continuing or is to re -establish the small business or primary producer 
operation within the same location, or within the same local government area.  
4.3.15. The principal loan amount is to be established by the state. 
Concessional interest rate loan to needy individuals or non-profit organisations whose 
assets have been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster  
4.3.16. For an applicant to be eligible, the state must be satisfied that:  
a) the applicant’s assets have been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible 
disaster, and 
b) the applicant ha s no alternative funding source to rectify the damage and has used any 
available insurance prior to seeking assistance. This could be any available insurance or 
funding received from government disaster programs which are not linked to the eligible 
measures or a loan from a financial institution. The state should implement appropriate 
assessment methods  to determine if the applicant has sought alternative funding.  
4.3.17. The principal loan amount is up to $100, 000 to any one eligible applicant.  
4.3.18. In addition to the loan, an applicant can also receive a grant (see subclauses 4. 3.36–4.3.37). 
Concessional interest rate loan to small businesses, primary producers or non-profit 
organisations that have suffered a significant loss of income as a direct result of an 
eligible disaster 
4.3.19. For an applicant to be eligible, the state must be satisfied that:  
a) the applicant has suffered a significant loss of income  as a direct result  of an eligible 
disaster, and 
b) the applicant’s small business , primary producer or non-profit organisation operation was 
viable prior to the eligible disaster  and the assistance will ensure it continues to be viable. 
The state should implement appropriate assessment methods  to establish past and future 
long-term viability , and 
c) the applicant is cont inuing or is to re -establish the small business , primary producer or 
non-profit organisation operation within the same location, or within the same local 
government area.  
4.3.20. The concessional interest rate loan for a significant loss of income  may be used for essential 
working capital . 
 
  
  
19 
 
4.3.21. The principal loan amount is up to $100, 000 to any one applicant.  
4.3.22. The repayment term for the loan amount is up to ten (10) years with the ability to offer interest 
only for a period of up to two (2) years.  
Calculation for the concessional interest rate 
4.3.23. In setting the state’s interest rate on concessional interest rate loans in a financial year, the 
state must have regard to the following factors:  
a) the Commonwealth concessional interest rate,  and 
b) the estimated amount required by the  state to cover the costs of establishing and 
maintaining the loan arrangements, including undertaking recovery action and bad debts. 
4.3.24. If the state charges a margin above the rate established in clause 4.3.23, the state must  pay to 
the Commonwealth , on or before 15 June in each successive year until maturity of the loan, an 
amount equal to three quarters of the associated margin on the value of the concessional 
interest rate loan balance.  
4.3.25. The state must review the interest rate charged to eligible applicant s from time to time, making 
adjustments where appropriate to accommodate any improvement in the circumstances of the 
eligible applicant.  
 
Interest rate subsidies 
4.3.26. In response to an eligible disaster , eligible app licants can only receive a concessional interest 
rate loan or an interest rate subsidy. The state will assess the type of assistance to be 
provided. See sub- clause 4.3.12–4.3.25 for concessional interest rate loans.  
4.3.27. Requirements for an interest rate subsidy scheme are:  
a) applicants must apply to the states who assess eligibility  
b) the state will issue a letter to eligible applicants, which they provide to a participating 
authorised deposit taking institution  (ADTI) 
c) the ADTI assesses the eligible applicant  against lending guidelines developed by the state 
under this scheme  
d) the subsidy is paid by the state to the ADTI, and 
e) the subsidy reimburses the ADTI for the interest rate it gives on the loan.  
For example, the interest rate charged by the states on concessional loans in 2014- 15 is 1.25 per cent. This is 
based on: 
• 50 per cent of the 10 year Treasury bond rate from 1 April to 30 June for the preceding financial year 
(Commonwealth concessional interest rate ). In 2013-14 the average rate for the period was 2.0 per cent, 
resulting in a 1.0 per cent Commonwealth c oncessional interest rate; and 
• the states determining that 0.25 per cent is an applicable rate to cover the cost of establishing and 
maintaining the loan arrangements, including recovery and bad debts. 
However, if the state charges an additional rate above this, say 0.25 per cent, then the state must pay 
three-quarters of this margin or 0.19 per cent to the Commonwealth on or before 15 June in each successive year 
of the loan period or until the rate is returned to 1.25 per cent.  
It is important that the states document how they determine the rate to cover the cost of establishing and 
maintaining the loan arrangements, i ncluding recovery and bad debts . The states should provide this to the 
Commonwealth when setting the concessional interest rate loans each financial year  in line with clause 11.5.   
 
 
  
  
20 
 
Interest rate subsidies to small businesses or primary producers whose assets have been 
significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster 
4.3.28. For an applicant to be eligible, the state must be satisfied that:  
a) the applicant’s assets (including fodder) have been significantly damaged as a direct result 
of an eligible disaster . 
b) the applicant’s small business  or primary producer operation was viable prior to the eligible 
disaster and the assistance will ensure it continues to be viable. The state should implement 
appropriate assessment methods  to establish pas t and future  
long-term viability , and 
c) the applicant is continuing or is to re -establish the small business  or primary producer 
operation within the same location, or within the same local government area.  
4.3.29. The maximum principal loan amount which qualifies for an interest rate subsidy is to be 
established by the state. 
Interest rate subsidies to needy individuals or non-profit organisations whose assets have 
been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster 
4.3.30. For an applicant to be eligible, the state must be satisfied that:  
a) the applicant’s assets have been significantly damaged as a direct result of an eligible 
disaster, and 
b) the applicant has no alternative funding source to rectify the damage and has used any  
available insurance prior to seeking assistance. This could be any available insurance or 
funding received from government disaster programs which are not linked to the eligible 
measures or a loan from a financial institution. The state should implement appropriate 
assessment methods  to determine if the applicant has sought alternative funding.  
4.3.31. The maximum principal loan amount which qualifies for an interest rate subsidy is to be 
established by the state. 
Interest rate subsidy to small businesses, primary producers or non-profit organisations 
that have suffered a significant loss of income as a direct result of an eligible disaster 
4.3.32. For an applicant to be eligible, the state must be satisfied that:  
a) the applicant has suffered a significant loss of income  as a direct result of an eligible 
disaster, and 
b) the applicant’s small business , primary producer or non-profit organisation operation was 
viable prior to the eligible disaster  and the assistance will ensure it continues to be viable. 
The state should implemen t appropriate assessment methods  to establish past and future 
long-term viability , and 
c) the applicant is continuing or is to re -establish the small business , primary producer or 
non-profit organisation operations within the same location, or within the same local 
government area.  
4.3.33. The maximum principal loan amount from the ADTI which qualifies for an interest rate subsidy 
is $100,000. 
4.3.34. The repayment term for the loan amount from the ADTI is up to ten (10) years with the ability to 
offer interest only for the first two (2) years.  
  
 
  
  
21 
 
Freight subsidy to primary producers 
4.3.35. The requirements for a freight subsidy scheme to a primary producer  are: 
a) the grant is made by the state to a primary producer , and 
b) the grant reimburses  the primary producer a maximum of 50 per cent of the costs to the 
producer of transporting any of the following as a direct result of the eligible disaster: 
i. livestock 
ii. fodder or water for livestock , and 
iii. building or fencing equipment or machinery . 
Grant to needy individuals or non-profit organisations  
4.3.36. For an applicant to be eligible, the state must be satisfied that:  
a) the applicant’s assets have been significantly damaged as a direct result of the 
eligible disaster, and 
b) the applicant has no reasonable prospect of obtaining commercial finance.  
4.3.37. A maximum grant of $10,000 for non-profit organisations and $5,000 for individuals 
(subject to means testing) is available to any one applicant.  
4.4. Category C measures 
4.4.1. States have 24 months from the end of the financi al year in which the relevant eligible disaster  
occurred to incur state expenditure for Category  C measures.  
4.4.2. A Category C measure is a community recovery package that is intended to support a holistic 
approach to the recovery of regions, communities or sectors severely affected by an eligible 
disaster, and may comprise of one or more of the following:  
a) A community recovery fund in circumstances where a community is severely affected and 
needs to restore social networks, community functioning and community facilities. 
Expenditure from the fund is aimed at community recovery, community development and 
community capacity building, and is administered  by the state in close collaboration with 
local government or other community bodies.  
b) Recovery grants for small businesses and non-profit organisations where the 
business sector is severely affected and the community risks losing essential businesses. 
Grants are aimed at covering the cost of clean-up and reinstatement , but not at providing 
compensation for losses.  
c) Recovery grants for primary producers where the farming sector is severely affected, 
with threats to viability and disruption of production likely to extend beyond the current 
season. Grants are aimed at covering the cost of clean -up and reinstatement , but not at 
providing compensation for losses.  
4.4.3. The cost sharing ratio between the Commonwealth and the state for each Category C measure 
is equal— 50/50. 
  
 
  
  
22 
 
4.4.4. In order to receive a Category C measure in relation to a n eligible disaster, the recovery 
assistance must meet the following conditions:  
a) it either meets the intent of the community recovery package, or it contains only variations 
which have been approved by the Minister in writing, and 
b) the use of that assi stance has been approved by the Prime  Minister in writing in relation to 
the eligible disaster, and 
c) it meets any other terms and conditions imposed by the Commonwealth  in writing. 
4.4.5. A Category C assistance request must be made by the state using 
Form Attachment C: Category C request form, and submitted with a covering letter to the 
Prime Minister for consideration . 
4.4.6. The value of a community recovery fund under clause 4.4.2 a) will be determined at the time 
the assistance is approved by the Prime Minister. 
4.4.7. Grants made under clauses 4.4.2 b) and 4.4.2 c) must not exceed $10,000, unless exceptional 
circumstances are identified, in which case up to $25,000 may be granted . 
[See Guideline 3 – Category C assessment framework  for further information.]  
4.5. Category D measures 
4.5.1. States have 24 months from the end of the financial year in which the relevant eligible disaster 
occurred— or such longer period as the Commonwealth specifies— to incur state expenditure 
for Category  D measures that have been requested by a state and agreed to by the 
Commonwealth . 
4.5.2. A Category D  measure is an act of relief or recovery carried out to alleviate distress or damage 
in circumstances which are, in the opinion of the Commonwealth , exceptional.  
4.5.3. Consistent with clause 4.5 .2, assistance provided under Category D is to alleviate distress or 
damage caused as a direct result of an eligible disaster and is not provided for new state or 
local government infrastructure  that did not exist prior to the eligible disaster .  
4.5.4. A Category D assistance request must be made by the state  in writing and submitted with a 
covering letter to the Prime Minister for consideration. The request  must, where applicable, 
include information in relation to the following : 
a) the nature of the impact of the eligible disaster  
i. dates of the eligible disaster  
ii. natural disaster type and intens ity, for example, a Category 5 c yclone, or  
1 in 100 year flood  
iii. affected locations, including communities/regions  
iv. the communities that have been affected  
v. impacts in the social, built, economic and environmental domains — for example: 
• social – number of fatalities, disruption to essential utilities and services  
• built – number of houses damaged/destroyed, damage to transport networks  
• economic – small business closures, agricultural losses  
• environmental – pollution/contamination iss ues, impacts on native habitats  
 
  
  
23 
 
b) frequency and impacts of natural disasters within affected locations  
c) the type and level of assistance already available to support the affected communities and 
sectors, including other eligible measures made available under these arrangements  
d) the additional assistance measures requested to support the specific recovery needs of the 
affected communities and sectors, including:  
i. an outline of each additional assistance measure required to support the specific 
recovery needs of the affected communities and sectors  
ii. evidence demonstrating the specific recovery needs  of the affected com munities and 
sectors have occurred as a direct result of the eligible disaster  
iii. detailed information on each additional assistance measure requested , including the 
intended recovery  outcomes, administering state agencies and a detailed breakdown  of 
costs for each additional assistance measure , and 
iv. evidence demonstrating that the additional assistance measures requested to support 
the specific recovery needs of the affected communities and sectors, are consistent with 
the purpose of these arrangements   
e) the consultation process which has taken place in the state to identify the specific recovery 
needs of the affected communities and sectors supporting the state’s Category D 
assistance request . 
4.5.5. In order to receive a Category D measure in relation to a n eligible disaster, the assistance 
must: 
a) be consistent with the purpose of these arrangements , and 
b) be approved by the Prime Minister in writing, and  
c) meet any other terms and conditions imposed by the Commonwealth in writing. 
4.5.6. The cost-sharing ratio between the Commonwealth and the state for each Category D measure 
is equal— 50/50— or such other cost -sharing ratio determined by the Commonwealth  that may 
be guided by advice provided by the state in its Category D assistance request.  
5. Conditions for Commonwealth assistance 
5.1. Notification 
5.1.1. When a natural disaster occurs and the relevant state knows, or expects, the natural disaster  
to be an eligible disaster the state must notify the department of that fact within 
three (3) months. 
5.1.2. States may also write to the Minister seeking advice on whether the Minister considers the 
event to be a terrorist act for the purposes of these arrangements . 
5.1.3. When an act is determined by the Minister to be a terrorist act for the purposes of these 
arrangements , the Minister or department will write to the relevant state. 
5.1.4. If the Minister determines the event to be a terrorist act for the purposes of an eligible disaster  
under these arrangements , this does not equate to any assumption with respect to the 
admissibility of evidence before a Court,  or the guilt of persons accused of engaging in a 
terrorist act under the Criminal Code Act 1995.  
 
  
  
24 
 
5.1.5. When an act is determined to be a terrorist act, the relevant state must  notify the department of 
that fact within three (3) months from the date of the Minister’s or the department’s letter.  
[See Guideline 5 – Process for determining a terrorist act is an eligible disaster .] 
5.1.6. The notification must be in the form set out in Form Attachment A: Notification Form.  
5.2. Public acknowledgment of Commonwealth  assistance 
5.2.1. The announcement of an eligible measure or eligible measure s must be through a joint media 
release, or other joint announcement, unless otherwise agreed by the Commonwealth . 
5.2.2. The Commonwealth  and the state  must work together on the details of a joint media release or 
other joint announcement.  
5.2.3. When referring to a n eligible measure under these arrangements , it must be described as 
“jointly funded by the Commonwealth and ^insert name of state^ under the Disaster Recovery 
Funding Arrangements”. 
5.2.4. The state must advise the department in writing where there is an intention to undertake 
projects for which estimated reconstruction costs have been established within a local 
government area notified for an eligible disaster  (including for  local government  essential public 
asset reconstruction projects ). The state must advise the department at the time the state 
submits quarterly budget reports under clause 5.4 of these arrangements . 
5.2.5. States must reach prior agreement with the Commonwealth on the nature and content of any 
subsequent events, announcements, promotional material or publicity relating to an eligible 
measure under these arrangements . This includes but is not limited to:  
a) any state media releases regarding eligible measures under these arrangements  
b) essential public a sset ceremonies  
c) media events which include reference to funding or eligible measures under these 
arrangements , and/or 
d) plaques and signage at any essential public asset reconstruction  project funded under these 
arrangements . 
5.2.6. States may seek an exemption from clause 5.2 where it is clear that a state is not likely to 
reach its first threshold for a financial year, which would preclude a state from receiving partial 
reimbursement for Category B assistance measures . The request must be in the form set out 
in Form Attachment A: Notification Form.  
5.3. Advice on state eligible measures 
5.3.1. By 1 September each year state s must provide the Commonwealth  with details of all 
eligible measures which may be made available during that financial year in response to a n 
eligible disaster. 
5.3.2. All eligible measure s must be categorised according to the relevant measures listed at  
clauses 4.2 and 4.3. 
 
  
  
25 
 
5.4. Quarterly budget reports 
5.4.1. Each state must provide to the  department, for budgetary purposes, reports of the state’s: 
a) unacquitted state expenditure , including state expenditure  in the current financial year to 
date  
b) latest estimates of state expenditure for the remainder of the current financial year and for 
the next three financial years  
c) unacquitted established estimated reconstruction cost s, including estimated reconstruction 
costs established in the current financial year to date  
d) preliminary estimates of expenditure on the reconstruction  of essential public assets  that 
have not yet been  calculated in accordance with these arrangements , and 
e) intention to undertake projects for which estimated reconstruction costs have been 
established within a local government area notified for an eligible disaster (including for local 
government essential public asset reconstruction projects ) in accordance with clause 5.2.4.  
5.4.2. The reports must be provided quarterly or, if the department requests, at any other time . 
5.4.3. The reports must be in the form prescribed in Form Attachment B: Estimates Pack.  
5.4.4. The reports must be certified by an officer at the level, and in the format, des ignated by the 
department. 
5.4.5. Any state expenditure arising from discretionary Commonwealth  agreements (for example,  
Category C measures and/or Category  D measures) must be itemised separatel y and be 
described in accordance with the description of each item as agreed by the Commonwealth . 
5.4.6. The department may at any time ask the state to provide information , including access to 
project level information,  that the department considers necessary to ensure that state 
expenditure and estimated reconstruction cost s are in accordance with the principles, 
conditions, and eligibility requirements of these arrangements . 
5.4.7. For the avoidance of doubt, quarterly budget reports are not requ ired to be subject to 
assurance activities.  
6. Essential public asset reconstruction  
6.1. Essential public asset 
6.1.1. An essential public asset  directly damaged by an eligible disaster, or a re-damaged essential 
public asset may be reconstructed to its pre-disaster function.  
6.1.2. An essential public a sset must be an asset of an eligible undertaking.   
[See Guideline 1 – An essential public asset  for further information on eligible essential public assets .] 
  
 
  
  
26 
 
6.2. Damage assessment of an essential public asset 
6.2.1. States must undertake a damage assessment of each essential public a sset. This must be 
conducted or verified by a suitably qualified professional with the appropriate level of expertise  
and experience from either:  
a) the state or local government,  or 
b) a delegated third party. 
6.2.2. The purpose of a damage assessment is to provide evidence of the condition of an essential 
public asset following an eligible disaster, proving the damage is directly attributable to the 
eligible disaster. 
6.2.3. The assessment must include all evidence re lied upon to demonstrate new damage (that is, 
damage from the eligible disaster ) and the pre- disaster condition of the essential public asset . 
6.2.4. The evidence must demonstrate that the damage to the essential public asset  was caused as a 
direct result of an eligible disaster . 
6.2.5. The state must be able to provide evidence of the exact location, nature and extent of damage 
to an essential public a sset through one or more of the following most appropriate means:  
a) geospatial data, including satellite images (as soon as reasonably pr acticable, but no later 
than 12 months from the eligible  disaster) 
b) visual data, including photographs or video footage, (as soon as reasonably practicable, but 
no later than 12 months from the eligible disaster), or 
c) asset inspection report( s) conducted  or verified by a suitably qualified professional , with the 
appropriate level of expertise and experience  (as soon as reasonably pr acticable, but no 
later than 12  months from the eligible disaster). 
Pre-disaster condition of an essential public asset 
6.2.6. To assure the Commonwealth  of the pre-disaster condition of an essential public asset prior to 
an eligible disaster,  evidence of pre- disaster condition is required. 
6.2.7. The state must be able to provide evidence of the location, nature and pre -disaster condition of 
the essential public a sset through one or more of the following most appropriate means:  
a) geospatial data, including satellite images (latest avail able data but no older than 
two (2) years before the eligible disaster or for local government essential public assets no 
older than four  (4) years before the eligible disaster)  
b) visual data, including photographs or video footage (latest available data but no older than 
two (2) years before the  eligible disaster or for local government essential publi c assets no 
older than four  (4) years before the eligible disaster)  
c) maintenance records, (latest available data but no older than two (2) years before the 
eligible disaster or for local government essential public assets no older than four  (4) years 
before the eligible disaster ) 
d) asset registers (latest available data but no older than two (2) years before the 
eligible disaster or for local government essential public assets no older than four  (4) years 
before the eligible disaster), or 
e) an inspection report or certification (undertaken at the time of the damage assessment) 
conducted or verified by a suitably qualified professional , with the appropriate level of 
expertise and experience  that confirms the damage was caused by the eligible disaster. 
 
  
  
27 
 
6.3. Defining essential public asset pre -disaster function 
6.3.1. The Commonwealth only provides funding equivalent to the reconstruction of an essential 
public asset to its pre-disaster function.  
6.3.2. The Essential Public Asset Function Framework must be used to determine the pre-disaster 
function of an essential public asset.  The function of an essential public asset  is the main factor 
in assessing whether reconstruction  will provide the same pre-disaster function .  
6.3.3. The pre-disaster function of an essential public a sset must be determined in order to establish 
the estimated reconstruction cost .  
6.3.4. Where the state carries out minor reconstruction works that result in no change to the  
pre-disaster function of the essential public asset — for example, gravel re-sheeting, patching, 
grading, road infrastructure replacement or drainage repair — the state is not required to 
document the primary asset function and the asset classification under the Essential Public 
Asset Function Framework . 
6.3.5. The process for defining pre-disaster function  of an essential public asset is: 
a) Step 1: Define primary asset function by establishing:  
1. category, and 
2. sub-category and purpose.  
b) Step 2: Define asset classification by establishing:  
3. type 
4. capacity, and 
5. layout and materials. 
Table 1:  Essential Public Asset Function Framework  
 

 
  
  
28 
 
Step 1 
6.3.6. The category and sub -category of an essential public asset  depicts the primary asset function. 
This is required in order to determine whether an essential public asset  will continue to provide 
its pre-disaster function  following reconstruction .  
6.3.7. All eligible essential public assets fall into two separate categories — Transport or Public 
Infrastructure . Each category can then be further split into sub -categories— for example, a 
road, bridge, public hospital, public school.  
Step 2 
6.3.8. The next step in defining pre-disaster function is to classify the level of service the essential 
public asset provides to the community. This builds further details of the  essential public asset 
by defining the asset type, capacity,  layout and materials.  
Asset type 
6.3.9. It is critical that the essential public asset type is defined. If there are multiple types within a 
particular category, these should be separated to ensure the estimated reconstruction  cost is 
accurate.  
6.3.10. The primary function of an essential public asset should remain the key consideration when 
assessing the specific essential public asset  type. For example, if assessing a road, what is the 
specific use of that road – is it an arterial r oad, sub-arterial road or local road? What was the 
original design intent of the road — for example, an unsealed road for light commuter traffic 
between rural towns? 
Asset capacity 
6.3.11. After defining the essential public asset  type, the capacity of the essential public asset  should 
be established. This is the capacity of the essential public asset to perform its primary function 
and, additionally, other services it may have been providing to the community  prior to the 
eligible disaster . For example, the capacity of the road to perform the primary function of 
transport vehicles travelling from point  A to point B might include two lanes of local traffic in 
each direction or one lane in each direction, a pedestrian walkway on one side of the road, and 
a breakdown lan e on both sides of the road.  What is the main role of the road — for example, a 
two lane highway? Are there multiple roles of the road— for example, a two lane road with 
pedestrian walkways?  
Asset layout and materials 
6.3.12. The final level in defining the function  of an essential public asset is the layout and materials. 
Defining the layout and materials of the essential public asset is strongly linked with the 
capacity of the essential public asset and may directly inform the layout and materials of the 
essential public asset.  
6.3.13. This should focus on engineering details of the essential public asset . It is essential that the 
appropriate expertise is applied in developing the estimated reconstruction cost . Consideration 
should be given to:  
• dimensions and layout  
• materials used, and 
• road infrastructure, including: barriers, signage, signalling, lighting, noise attenuation, 
drainage, and associated footpaths  or bikeways . 
 
  
  
29 
 
For example, what are the general dimensions and features (including safety) of the essential 
public asset? In the instance of a road, how wide are the lanes, shoulders and pedestrian 
walkways? What is the depth of the pavement? Does the road have line markings, safety 
barriers, lighting or traffic signals? What materials have been used to construct the  
road – gravel, granular with seal , concrete or asphalt? How does the road interface with its 
surroundings  – are there signalised intersections ? 
6.4. Establishing the estimated reconstruction cost 
6.4.1. Prior to establishing  the estimated reconstruction cost , states must have determined the 
pre-disaster function of the essential public asset  under clause 6.3.  
6.4.2. States must establish the estimated reconstruction cost  for the reconstruction  of an essential 
public asset through: 
a) market response,  or 
b) cost estimation . 
6.4.3. A critical step in this process is the estimate of the reconstruction  cost of the essential public 
asset and identification of a total project cost. States must develop the estimated 
reconstruction cost for the reconstruction of an essential public asset  comprising eligible state 
expenditure for construction, design and project management, contingency and cost 
escalation. 
6.4.4. The selected reconstruction treatment must be consistent with the pre-disaster function of the 
essential public asset. 
6.4.5. Where it is not possible to undertake the reconstruction of the essential public a sset due to 
obsolete or outdated construction methodologies and building materials, states must use the 
Essential Public Asset Function Framework  to develop an estimated reconstruction cost of the 
essential public asset to its pre-disaster function. 
Market response 
6.4.6. If market response is the selected method, t he applicable procurement processes must be 
followed when requesting pricing from the market.   
Cost estimation 
6.4.7. If cost estimation is the selected method, states must verify the estimated reconstruction cost  
by: 
a) using an internal  engineer or quantity surveyor with the appropriate level of expertise and 
experience, or 
b) engaging an independent engineer or quantity surveyor with the appropriate level of 
expertise and experience.  
6.5. Contingency allowance for reconstruction of an essential 
public asset 
6.5.1. In estimating reconstruction  costs, the states will be required to account for residual risks 
through the inclusion of a contingency allowance.   
 
  
  
30 
 
6.5.2. The calculation of a contingency allowance estimate should reflect the reconstruction project 
risk profile, complexity, investment lifecycle, benchmarks and past performance for similar 
projects.  In determining a contingency allowance, the Commonwealth  will require the states to 
use an appropriate contingency estimation approach, noting that a deterministic factor based 
cost estimation  approach will be suitable for most reconstruction projects. For certain 
reconstruction projects, states may consider a streamlined approach to the application of a 
contingency allowance based on the type of treatment required and the unique characteristics 
of a particular region of a state.  However more sophisticated approaches to estimating 
contingency may also be appropriate for complex/high dollar value reconstruction  projects. 
6.5.3. In identifying a contingency allowance, states will be expected to follow the established 
cost estimation guidance published by the Commonwealth  Department of Infrastructure,  
Regional Development  and Cities at www.investment.infrastructure.gov.au . 
6.6. Cost escalation for reconstruction  of an essential public asset 
6.6.1. Cost escalation allowances are applied t o an estimated reconstruction cost to ensure adequate 
capital funding is provided to compensate for the expected change, generally positive, in costs 
over the life of a reconstruction  project. These cost increases can be the result of a number of 
factors includ ing price fluctuations in labour, plant and material, and global and local market 
pressures. 
6.6.2. The Commonwealth  expects that at the time of preparing the estimated reconstruction cost  the 
states will be required to account for cost changes, ge nerally increases, over the life of a 
reconstruction  project by establishing a realistic cost escalation allowance. Consistent with the 
objectives of ensuring the reconstruction  of an essential public asset  following an eligible 
disaster is achieved,  cost escalation would at a maximum only be applied and eligible for a 
period of three (3) years from the end of the financial year in which the eligible disaster 
occurred. 
6.6.3. States will be expected to utilise the escalation rates and the escalation calculation 
methodology included in the state specific Road Construction Cost Escalation Forecasts 
prepared annually by the Commonwealth  Department of Infrastructure,  Regional Development  
and Cities, and provided to each state and territory infrastructure delivery agency .  
7. Variance between estimated and actual 
reconstruction costs for essential public 
asset reconstruction 
Efficiencies Framework 
7.1.1 Consistent with the basic principles of these arrangements , it is important for all levels of 
government to partner in the advancement of natural disaster mitigation through  the 
Efficiencies Framework (clause 3.1.4 refers).  
7.1.2 The Efficiencies Framework is aimed at the variance achieved when the actual cost of 
a reconstruction project is less than the estimated reconstruction cost  for the same 
reconstruction project (efficiencies realised).  
 
  
  
31 
 
7.1.3 Efficiencies realised under this Framework are to be redirected towards natural disaster 
mitigation activities and projects in accordance with the High Level Disaster Mitigation 
Principles outlined below.  
 
Management and reporting 
7.1.4 The states’ management and reporting requirements under this Framework will apply to the 
Commonwealth contribution recognised for a state’s estimated reconstruction costs claimed in 
a given financial year.  
7.1.5 States can retain efficiencies realised across a program of wo rks for a period of 36 months 
from the end of the financial year that is applicable to that program of works 
(36 months period). 
7.1.6 Within the 36 months period, states must allocate and/or spend the efficiencies realised for the 
program of works  towards: 
a) essential public asset reconstruction projects where the actual cost is more than the 
estimated reconstruction cost, and/or 
b) natural hazard mitigation activities in accordance with the High Level Disaster Mitigation 
Principles. 
7.1.7 At the end of the 36 months p eriod, states must have allocated and/or spent the efficiencies 
realised for the program of works  in accordance with the High Level  Disaster Mitigation 
Principles. 
7.1.8 Efficiencies realised for the program of works  do not have to be spent where realised. The 
state is responsible for determining the allocation of efficiencies realised.  
HIGH LEVEL DISASTER MITIGATION PRINCIPLES  
Mitigation is the action taken to reduce or eliminate future risk from natural hazards. Potential mitigation activities 
are summarised into the following three categories:  
1. Planning and Regulations  – activities could include:  
• assessing, documenting and communicating community risks  
• limiting or prohibiting development in high -risk areas 
• integrating hazard mitigation into planning.  
2. Infrastructure Projects  – activities could include:  
• protection of existing public infrastructure 
• post-disaster mitigation activities.  
3. Education and Awareness –  activities could include:  
• increased hazard and risk education awareness.  
 
Mitigation Principles  
Mitigation activities:  
• should complement existing state mitigation programs or contribute to new initiatives  
• should address the state’s assessed natural hazard risks  
• should focus on reducing the requirement for future funding under these arrangements  
• should align with the priorities under the National Strategy for Disaster Resilience, such as:  
o where possible increase education and awaren ess around risks, hazards, and 
vulnerabilities, and 
o where applicable, should facilitate/enable the building of partnerships for risk  reduction 
involving government, organisations, businesses, and the public.  
 
  
  
32 
 
7.1.9 States must report to the Commonwealth on how the state has allocated and spent the 
efficiencies realised for each program of works  at the time the state submits its audited claim  
for financial assistance.  
7.1.10 The Commonwealth  contribution will be calculated in accordance with the standard 
methodology followed under  clause 9.3 of  these arrangements for determining the 
Commonwealth reimbursement for eligible state expenditure claimed in a given financial year.  
7.1.11 Where the recognised Commonwealth contribution of efficiencies realised is less than the 
state’s contribution, the state should consider matching the contribution of the Commonwealth. 
Where the recognised Commonwealth contribution is more than the state’s contribution, the 
state should consider investing the full amount of the state’s contribution towards activities and 
projects consistent with this Framework.  
7.1.12 Where a Commonwealth contribution has not been recognised in a given financial year for 
Category B expenditure, the state will not be required to comply with the requirements of this 
Framework.  
Variance as a result of special circumstances 
7.1.13 Where the estimated reconstruction cost is lower than the actual cost of a reconstruction  
project as a result of special circumstances , and the variance does not meet the criteria for an 
Independent Technical Review under Application  Three (clause 8 and Schedule B refers), the 
state can adjust the estimated reconstruction cost to reflect the v ariance. 
7.1.14 The state must maintain evidence to demonstrate the special circumstances encountered, 
including why the special  circumstances  could not reasonably have been foreseen, and 
submit to the Commonwealth  with the state’s audited claim in support of the variance. 
Variance as a result of a re-damaged essential public asset 
7.1.15 Where an essential public asset has been directly damaged by an eligible disaster 
(Eligible Disaster 1), that essential public asset is considered to be a re-damaged essential 
public asset if it suffers damage in the same location by a subsequent eligible disaster 
(Eligible Disaster 2). 
7.1.16 Where expenditure has been incurred for reconstruction works on an essential public asset 
directly damaged by Eligible  Disaster 1 and the same essential public asset is  
re-damaged by Eligible Disaster 2, the state must close-off and establish the actual value of 
the expenditure incurred for Eligible  Disaster 1. The state is not permitted to utilise any 
variance in expenditure for Eligible Disaster 1 as efficiencies realised under the Efficiencies 
Framework.  
For Eligible Disaster 2, the state must establish an estimated reconstruction cost for the 
reconstruction of the essential public asset in accordance with these arrangement s.  
7.1.17 Where expenditure has not been incurred for reconstruction works on an essential public asset 
directly damaged by Eligible  Disaster 1 and the same essential public asset is re -damaged by 
Eligible Disaster 2, the state is only permitted to claim the estimated reconstruction cost for 
Eligible Disaster 2. 
  
 
  
  
33 
 
7.1.18 If a state has previously submitted an audited claim containing the estimated reconstruction 
cost for Eligible Disaster 1, the state must report the expenditure  adjustment to the department 
at the time the state submits quarterly budget reports under clause 5.4 of these arrangements 
and in the state’s next audited claim.  
7.1.19 The state must maintain evidence to demonstrate the variance in expenditure incurred as a 
result of a re-damaged essential public asset , and submit to the Commonwealth if required. 
8. Independent Technical Review of an 
essential public asset reconstruction 
project  
8.1. Requirement to conduct an Independent Technical R eview 
8.1.1. An Independent Technical Review may be required in order to provide the Commonwealth  with 
increased oversight and assurance in respect of claims made under these arrangements  for 
the reconstruction of essential public assets.  
8.1.2. An Independent Technical Review must be conducted in the following four circumstances:  
Application One The estimated reconstruction cost  for the project is $25 million 
or more. 
Application Two Where an alternative reconstruction  project solution is 
preferred and there is a variance between the estimated 
reconstruction cost  for the original project and the preferred 
reconstruction project solution, that is:  
• more than 50 per cent lower than the estimated 
reconstruction cost  of the original project, and  
• to a value of between $5 million and $25  million. 
Application Three Where special circumstances  are encountered which give rise 
to a variance in the estimated reconstruction cost  for the 
project that is: 
• greater than 15  per cent of the estimated reconstruction 
cost of the original project, and  
• greater than $1 million. 
Application Four The Commonwealth , on receiving  the estimated 
reconstruction cost  for a project from a state within its financial 
year claim, elects to have it reviewed.  
8.1.3. States are responsible for assessing when an Independent Technical Review under 
Applications One, Two and Three must be obtained for a project prior to submitting  the 
estimated reconstruction cost . 
8.1.4. The specific requirements for each application  above are outlined in Schedule B. 
 
  
  
34 
 
8.1.5. States will bear the cost of procuring an Independent Technical Review  under 
Applications One, Two and Three. States will be able to claim the  costs as an eligible measure 
under these arrangements .  
9. Claiming 
9.1. Type and timing of payments from the Commonwealth 
9.1.1. Payments are generally made after the state has submitted an audited claim for financial 
assistance. However, the Commonwealth  may provide advance payments if the Minister is 
satisfied that exceptional circumstances exist. The Commonwealth may also pre- pay a claim 
prior to audit (general claim) or pre-pay a state for a specific activity, for example, activities 
agreed under Category D measures. 
9.2. Determining the amount of Commonwealth  financial 
assistance 
9.2.1. The amount of Commonwealth  financial assistance to a state in relation to a financial year is 
worked out on the basis of:  
a) state expenditure and estimated reconstruction cost s in that financial year, and 
b) the extent to which the state expenditure and estimated reconstruction cost s have exceeded 
the first and second thresholds in that year, and 
c) the set rates and maximum values of assistance for all eligible measures, as defined in 
these arrangements  and/or as agreed by the Commonwealth.  
9.2.2. The department must inform the states in writing of their respective thresholds as soon as 
possible following the release of the figures by the Australian Bureau of Statistics.  
9.3. Rates of assistance for eligible  measures 
9.3.1. The rate of Commonwealth  assistance that may be payable in a financial year on eligible 
measures outlined in these arrangements , or as specified by the Prime Minister, is 
calculated as: 
a) if state expenditure does not exceed the state’s first threshold, then:  
i. Category A measures: 50 per cent, and 
ii. Category B measures: zero, or 
b) if state expenditure exceeds the state’s first threshold, then: 
i. Category A measures and Category B measures: 50 per cent between a state’s first and 
second threshold, plus up to 75 per cent of state expenditure above the state’s second 
threshold. 
9.3.2. Commonwealth  assistance with respect to Category B concessional interest rate loan 
measures is provided in the form of a concessional interest rate loan from the Commonwealth  
to the state. The rate of Commonwealth  assistance is defined at clause 9.3.1. The formula to 
determine separately the value of the Commonwealth ’s loan is at clause 9.4. 
 
  
  
35 
 
9.3.3. The amount of Commonwealth  assistance in relation to a financial year for state expenditure 
on Category C measures is to be calculated at the rate of  50 per cent (for which state 
expenditure may be capped).  
9.3.4. The amount of Commonwealth  assistance in relation to a financial year for state expenditure 
on Category D measures is to be calculated at the rate of 50 per cent, or such other rate as 
determined by the Commonwealth . 
9.3.5. If the state’s first threshold has been exceeded , but 50 per cent of Category A and Category C 
results in higher reimbursement to the state, the state may choose to take the higher 
reimbursement.  
9.4. Formula to determine the value of the Commonwealth loan to a 
state 
9.4.1. When the state provides Category  B concessional interest rate loans and/or Category D 
measures in the form of concessional interest rate loans , a portion of Commonwealth  financial 
assistance to the state will be provided as a loan. The Commonwealth  loan is subject to the 
thresholds or the applicable cost  sharing agreements.  
9.4.2. The value of the Commonwealth  loan to a state is calculated using the following formula:  
CL = (CA – (50% X SEAC)) X (SLB / (SE – SEAC)) where: 
CL = the value of the Commonwealth  loan to that state in respect of that financial year  
CA = total Commonwealth  assistance to the state, as calculated under clause 9.2 
SEAC = state expenditure  on Category A measures  and Category C measures 
SLB = total Category B concessional interest rate loans made  by the state during that 
financial year under subclauses 4.3.12— 4.3.34 
SE = total state expenditure  during that financial year on all measures  
 
To demonstrate how the formula at 9.4.2 works, the following example is provided. The assumptions used are for 
illustrative purposes only:  
• Total state expenditure is $21 million, made up of $15 million on Category A and Category C  measures and  
$6 million of Category B measures, including $0.1 million in Category B  loans. 
• The first threshold is $7.5 million and the second threshold is $13.13 million (or 1.75 times the first threshold ). 
• Commonwealth financial assistance (CA) would be $8.7 million based on clause 9 .2: 
o $2.8 million (50 per cent) of state expenditure in-excess of first threshold; and 
o $5.9 million (75 per cent) of state expenditure in excess of the second threshold . 
• (50% x SEAC) - $7.5 million where total state expenditure in Category A and Category C  is equal to 
$15 million  
The value of the Commonwealth loan would be: 
Commonwealth Loan CL = (CA – (50% x SEAC)) x (SLB / (SE - SEAC)) 
CL = ($8.7 million – (50% x $15 million)) x ($0.1 million / ($21 million - $15 million)) 
CL = ($8.7 million - $7.5 million) x ($0.1 million / $6 million)  
CL = $1.2 million x 0.01666666 
  $  
 
  
  
36 
 
9.4.3. Where Commonwealth  loans are provided under Category D (clause 4.5), they are subject to 
either fixed cost share agreements or thresholds. In the instance of cost share agreements, the 
applicable cost share agreement will be applied to the total state expenditure in respect of 
Category D loans.  Where Category D loans are subject to the thresholds , the value of the 
Commonwealth  loan to a state is calculated using the following formula:   
CL = (CA - (50% X SEAC)) x (SLD / (SE - SEAC)) where: 
CL = the value of the Commonwealth  loan to that state in respect of that financial year  
CA = total Commonwealth  assistance to the state, as calculated under clause 9.2  
SEAC = state expenditure on Category A measures  and Category C measures  
SLD = total Category D loans made by the state during that financial year under clause 4. 5 
SE = total state expenditure  during that financial year on all measures  
9.4.4. The calculation for the Commonwealth  loan amount for Category D loans made by the states is 
in addition to the application of the formula outlined in subclause 9.4.2. 
9.5. Concessional interest rate charged by the Commonwealth 
9.5.1. A loan to a state  is subject to the Commonwealth concessional interest rate determined by the 
department at the beginning of each financial year. The department will inform the states of the 
interest rate in a reasonable timeframe following the release of the data by the Reserve Bank 
of Australia.  
9.5.2. The applicable Commonwealth  concessional interest rate applies to all outstandi ng 
Commonwealth  loans to a state issued under these arrangements . 
9.5.3. A state’s repayment term is up to ten (10) years with the first two  (2) years being interest only.  
9.5.4. The principal of a loan to a state is repayable to the department in eight (8) equal annual  
instalments. Principal repayments must be paid to the department on or before 15  June in each 
financial year commencing in the financial year after the interest only period.  
9.5.5. Interest on a loan to a state begins to accrue following the end of the financial  year in which the 
department made the loan. The annual interest payable is calculated on the balance of 
outstanding loans at the beginning of each financial year. Interest must be paid to the 
department on or before 15 June in each year the interest is due.  
9.6. Calculation for the interest rate subsidy from the 
Commonwealth 
9.6.1. The interest rate subsidy which states claim from the Commonwealth  must be the lesser of:  
a) the Commonwealth  concessional interest rate,  or 
b) 50 per cent of the actual (commercial) interest amount charged by the ADTI . 
  
 
  
  
37 
 
10. State assurance activities 
10.1. Objectives 
10.1.1. The objectives of the state assurance activities are to:  
• provide the Commonwealth  with reasonable assurance over each state’s Disaster Recovery 
Funding Arrangements Management System  for estimated reconstruction cost s 
• provide the Commonwealth  with reasonable assurance over state expenditure included in 
the Financial Statement Claim Form  prescribed by the claim pack , and 
• inform the Commonwealth’s annual risk-based assurance activities per clause 11. 
10.1.2. States must engage the services of a state  appointed auditor  to undertake the assurance 
activities. 
10.2. Assurance engagement on Disaster Recovery Funding 
Arrangements Management System  
10.2.1. If a state has notified the department of the occurrence of an eligible disaster under clause 5.1, 
the state may submit a claim to the department for financial assistance in respect of estimated 
reconstruction costs for that eligible disaster . 
10.2.2. Each state will be required to conduct an annual assurance engagement, where estimated 
reconstruction cost s have been established in a given financial year. This engagement must be 
an attestation engagement on the design, description and operating effectiveness of the 
state’s controls for estimated reconstruction costs. This engagement must be conducted by a 
state appointed auditor  in accordance with ASAE3150. 
10.2.3. The objectives of the assurance engagement are:  
a) to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether, in all material respects, based on the 
defined control objectiv es, throughout the period:  
i. the state agency’s controls within the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements 
Management System (System) were suitably designed to achieve the identified control 
objectives 
ii. the state agency’s description of the System  controls fairly represents the System, and 
iii. the controls operated effectively as designed.  
b) to express a conclusion through a written report on the matters in a) above which expresses 
a reasonable assurance  conclusion and describes the basis for the conclusi on. 
Control objectives 
10.2.4. The control objectives for the purposes of the assurance engagement of each state’s System 
for estimated reconstruction cost s are outlined below.  
  
 
  
  
38 
 
10.2.5. Disaster notification 
N1. The state determines eligibility of a natural disaster or terrorist act as per clause 4.1. 
N2. The Commonwealth  is notified of an eligible disaster within three (3) months of the 
natural disaster occurring as per clause 5.1.1, or within three (3) months from the date of 
the Minister’s or department’s letter to the state that an act has been determined to be a 
terrorist act for the purposes of these arrangements as per clause 5.1.5. 
10.2.6. Damage assessment  
D1. The location of essential public assets is accurately recorded.  
D2. Assets meet the definition of an essential public asset. 
D3. The connection between the damage to an essential public asset  and an eligible disaster 
is assessed and recorded.  
D4. Pre-disaster condition of essential public assets is assessed and recorded  in accordance 
with clause 6.2. 
D5. Post disaster condition of essential public assets is recorded in accordance with 
clause 6.2. 
D6. Damage assessments are reviewed by a suitably qualified professional with the 
appropriate level of expertise and experience . 
10.2.7. Cost estimation and procurement  
C1. Primary asset function is established using the Essential Public Asset Function 
Framework in accordance with clauses  6.3 and 6.4. 
C2. Asset classification is established with reference to asset type, asset capacity, asset 
layout, and materials  in accordance with clause s 6.3 and 6.4. 
C3. Estimated reconstruction cost s are developed in accordance with these arrangements , 
and verified by an engineer or quantity surveyor  with the appropriate level of expertise 
and experience . 
C4. Applicable procurement processes are followed.  
C5. Actual costs for each project are recorded against the estimated reconstruction cost . 
C6. The Independent Technical Review  is applied as required and in accordance with the 
defined time limits. 
C7. Variations to an estimated reconstruction cost  are made in accordance with the 
requirements of  these arrangements . 
C8. Estimated reconstruction costs as determined in accordance with these arrangements for 
the reconstruction of essential public assets  submitted in the claim pack are reconciled to 
each reconstruction project .  
10.2.8. Each state agency should document its application of the criteria, being the control objectives  
outlined above and the controls necessary to achieve the control objectives . Each state 
appointed auditor must assess whether this criteria is suitable in accordance with the 
requirements of ASAE3150, and whether the state’s System is consistent with the criteria. 
10.2.9. In the event the state appointed auditor ’s assessment indicates the state’s application of the 
criteria is not suitable, the state must discuss the impact of the required changes with the 
department. 
  
 
  
  
39 
 
Materiality 
10.2.10. ASAE3150 requires auditors to consider materiality, when determining the nature, timing and 
extent of procedures to be performed.  Under ASAE3150 the state appointed auditor is required 
to identify a control as material if it is fundamental to the achievement of the control objective  
defined, included in the scope of the assurance engagement, by mitigating the risks that 
threaten achievement of that objective. Under ASAE3150 state appointed auditor s are also 
required to consider materiality when considering the effect on reporting.  
State agency reporting 
10.2.11. The state agency is required to prepare a description of its System to be subject to an 
assurance engagement. As required by ASAE3150 this must include at a minimum: 
• the services provided 
• the geographic, operational or functional boundaries of the System  are appropriate in the 
circumstances  of the engagement  
• the system of control objectives  and related controls  
• controls at third party organisations ( where applicable, refer below)  
• changes to the System or to controls during the period covered by the descr iption are 
described adequately,  and 
• the period of operation.  
10.2.12. A template for  the state agency’s description of the System as outlined above under  
ASAE3150 is provided in the claim pack. 
Third party organisations 
10.2.13. Although the controls assurance engagement is of the state agency  it is acknowledged a  
number of controls implemented to meet the control objectives may be managed by other state 
or local government agencies ( third party organisations).  
10.2.14. Where a state agency is able to satisfy the control objectives  without reliance on third part y 
organisations , the state agency  may use the ‘carve-out method’ as defined by ASAE3150. 
That is, the scope of the state appointed auditor’s engagement may exclude the controls of 
third party organisations . However, the scope of the engagement must include controls 
implemented by a state agency  to monitor the effectiveness of controls operating at third part y 
organisations , which form part of the state agency’s System, where applicable. 
10.2.15. Where a state agency is reliant on third part y organisations  to satisfy the control objectives , the 
state agency must use the ‘inclusive method ’ as defined by ASAE3150. That is, it is expected 
the controls identified against the control objecti ves include both the state agency  controls and 
the relevant controls of third party organisations  relied upon to  achieve the control objectives . 
  
 
  
  
40 
 
Reporting 
Management representation 
10.2.16. Prior to signing the assurance engagement report, the state agency must provide written 
representation to the state appointed auditor. This must be from management of the 
state agency who hold appropriate responsibility for the preparation of the report prepared 
under ASAE3150. It is expected this is a Chief Financial Officer or officer responsible for 
comparable duties.  Where the ‘inclusive method ’ is adopted, the state appointed auditor may 
also request applicable representations from third part y organisations .  
10.2.17. The representation, per ASAE3150, requires the acknowledgement of management’s 
responsibility for establishing and maintaining the state’s System, including identifying the risks 
that threaten achievement of the identified control objectives , and designing, implementing and 
maintaining co ntrols to mitigate those risks so that those risks will not prevent achievement of 
the control objectives  and therefore that the identified control objectives  will be achieved. It also 
requires the provision of all relevant information required under ASAE3150, and requires the 
disclosure of all design, implementation, or operating deficiencies relevant to the achievement 
of identified control objectives . 
Assurance report 
10.2.18. On completion of each engagement, the state  appointed auditor  is required to issue an 
assurance report under the requirements of ASAE3150, to provide context and a conclusion for 
the work undertaken. The state must request this to  be prepared in accordance with long form 
requirements of ASAE3150. A template for the assurance report  is provided in the claim pack. 
10.2.19. The report is required to be submitted to the Commonwealth by the state no later than  
31 March from the end of the relevant financial year ( that is, for the assurance engageme nt of 
controls for the period 1  July 2018 – 30 June 2019, the report is due no later than 
31 March 2020). 
Management reporting 
10.2.20. In addition to the assurance report, the state appointed auditor is required to consider whether, 
pursuant to the terms of the engagement and other engagement circumstances, any matter 
has come to the attention of the state appointed auditor  that is to be communicated with the 
state agency per the requirements of ASAE3150. This may include but is not limited to:  
• identified control design deficiencies  
• deficiencies in implementation or devia tions in operating effecti veness 
• identified fraud or information that i ndicates that a fraud may exist,  and 
• any other matter deemed of such importance by the state appointed auditor that 
communication is required.  
10.2.21. All reporting required under ASAE3150 and issued to the state must also be provided to the 
Commonwealth  by the state, subject to relevant  state legislative provisions.  
10.3. Audit of state expenditure 
10.3.1. If a state has notified the department of the occurrence of an eligible disaster under clause 5.1, 
the state may submit a n audited claim to the department for financial assistance in respect of 
state expenditure for that eligible disaster. 
 
  
  
41 
 
10.3.2. State expenditure (excluding estimated reconstruction costs ) in each financial year must be 
audited. This audit  must comply with the requirements of ASA 800 Special Considerations -
Audits of Financial Reports Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks.  
10.3.3. The audit report is required to be submitted to the Commonwealth  by the state no later than 
nine (9) months from the end of the relevant financial year (that is, for the audit of the period 
1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019, the audit report is due no later than 31 March 2020). 
10.3.4. On request from the department, the state appointed auditor  must be available to the 
department or its auditor for consultation on the audited claim.  
10.3.5. The audit and audited claim documentation must take account of any advance payments, or  
pre-payments already paid by the Commonwealth  to the state, as well as any conditions 
associated with those payments.  
10.3.6. The audited claim must be in the form prescribed by the claim pack.  
10.3.7. If the state is unable to comply with the sub mission date as specified in clause 10.3.3 with 
respect to all or part of the state expenditure in the financial year due to be claimed from the 
Commonwealth , it must write to the Commonwealth  requesting an extension of time.  The 
Commonwealth  may apply terms and conditions on the state with respect to any agreement  to 
an extension of time.  
10.3.8. If the state submits an audited claim later than the nine  (9) months specified in clause  10.3.3 
for which it did not request an extension of time from the Commonwealth , the Commonwealth  
may refuse the audited claim. 
Financial Reporting Framework 
10.3.9. Under Australian Ac counting Standards, the preparation of a financial report requires the 
inclusion of an adequate description of the applicable financial reporting framework in the 
financial report . For the purposes of this audit, the financial reporting framework is considered 
to be that prescribed by these arrangements . This includes:  
• Financial Statement Claim Form   
• Basis of preparation 
• Delegate certification  
• State Expenditure Breakdown Form (by Australian Government Reference Number 
(AGRN)) 
• State description of Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements Management System  (clause 
10.2.12 refers) 
• State assurance engagement report (clause 10.2.18 refers) 
• State audit opinion/s (clause 10.3 refers) 
• Efficiencies report (clause 7 refers), and 
• Special circumstances  report (clause 7 refers).  
10.3.10. The above documents will be provided by the Commonwealth  to states in a claim pack for 
each financial year.  
10.3.11. For the avoidance of doubt, this audit excludes an audit of estimated reconstruction cost s 
included within the claim pack. 
 
  
  
42 
 
Reporting 
Management representation 
10.3.12. Prior to signing the financial report, the state agency must provide written representation to the 
state appointed auditor . This must be from management of the agency who holds  appropriate 
responsibility for the preparation of the report prepared under ASA 580 Written 
Representations. It is expected this is a Chief Financial Officer or officer responsible for 
comparable duties . 
10.3.13. This representation is required to comply with the requirements of ASA 580, as issued by the 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. At minimum  (as required by ASA 580), this must 
include representation from management that:  
a) it has fulfilled its responsibility for the preparation of the financial report in  accordance with 
the financial reporting framework, as set out in the terms of the audit engagement  
b) it has provided the state appointed auditor  with all relevant information and access as 
agreed in the terms of the audit engagement  
c) all transactions have been recorded and are reflected in the financial report,  and 
d) addresses any representations the state appointed auditor determines is necessary to 
support other audit evidence relevant to the financial report.  
Audit report 
10.3.14. On completion of each audit, the state appointed auditor  is required to issue an audit report to 
provide context and conclusion for the work undertaken. This report must comply with the 
requirements of ASA 800 Special Considerations  - Audits of Financial Reports Prepared in 
Accordance wit h Special Purpose Frameworks .  
10.3.15. Where the state has not provided the reporting outlined in clause 10.3.18, the state appointed 
auditor’s report must also comply with  ASA 701 Communicating Key Audit Matters in the 
Independent Auditor’s Report. 
10.3.16. An illustrative example for the audit opinion under ASA 800 and ASA 701 is provided in the 
claim pack. 
Management reporting 
10.3.17. In addition to the audit report, the state appointed auditor is required to consider  under 
Australian Auditing Standards  whether, pursuant to the terms of the engagement and other 
engagement circumstances, any matter has come to the attention of the state appointed 
auditor that is to be communicated to the state agency . This may include but is not limited  to: 
a) the state appointed auditor’s views about significant qualitative aspects of the state 
agency’s accounting practices, including accounting policies, accounting estimates and 
financial reporting disclosures  
b) significant difficulties, if any, encounte red during the audit  
c) circumstances that affect the form and content of the auditor’s report, if any 
d) identified fraud or information that i ndicates that a fraud may exist,  and 
e) any other matter deemed of such importance by the state appointed auditor that 
communication  with the state agency  is required. 
 
  
  
43 
 
10.3.18. All reporting required under ASA 800 and issued to the state must also be provided to the 
Commonwealth  by the state, subject to relevant state legislative provisions.  
Other considerations 
Assurance activities for nil claim years  
10.3.19. Where a state has not incurred state expenditure for a given financial year on eligible 
measures, it is not required to have either an assurance engagement  in relation to estimated 
reconstruction costs under ASAE3150 or an audit of state expenditure under ASA 800 
conducted. 
Commonwealth and state appointed auditor communications 
10.3.20. There will be, at minimum, biannual communication between the Commonwealth and state 
appointed auditors . This will include:  
a) overall expectations under these arrangements  and relevant audit ing standards to be 
applied 
b) guidance in relation to new or contentious areas, or expenditure considered higher risk by 
the Commonwealth  for consideration by state appointed auditors  
c) changes to these arrangements , its schedules and guidelines, and new schedules, 
guidelines and interpretations,  and 
d) feedback from state appointed auditors  arising from work performed.  
10.4. State record keeping and evidentiary requirements 
10.4.1. States must keep an accurate audit trail for seven  (7) years from the end of each financial year 
in which state expenditure is claimed by the state, or until such time as the state’s audited 
claim is acquitted  by the Commonwealth . This must include written records that  correctly 
record and explain the state’s state expenditure claimed for all eligible measures.  
10.4.2. For assurance purposes the department may, at any time, request documentation from a state 
to evidence the state’s compliance with any aspect of these arrangements . 
10.4.3. States must make available to the Commonwealth  within one (1) month all documentation 
relevant to a request by the department. 
  
 
  
  
44 
 
10.4.4. Where documentation is requested, state’s must provide a complete audit trail comprising of 
physical and/or electronic records that correctly and accurately demonstrate a direct 
relationship between the activities for which state expenditure is claimed and the eligible 
measure— for example:  
a) visual and geospatial data and information which may include (but is not limited to) satellite 
images, Google earth images, photographs, video footage 
b) in the case of emergency works and immediate reconstruction works , documentation which 
may include (but is not limi ted to) asset damage and inspection reports 
c) administrative data and documentation which may include (but is not limited to) 
contract/work orders, timesheets, news articles, e- mail correspondence, funding approval 
letters, minutes of meetings  
d) financial data and documentation which may include (but is not limited to) tax and/or 
financial statements, cost -benefit analys es, transaction listings used to reconcile invoices, 
annual reports, proposals and invoices , and 
e) grant data and documentation  which may include (but is not limited to) grant applications 
and grant guidelines .  
11. Commonwealth Assurance Activities 
11.1. Types of assurance activities  
11.1.1. There are two types of assurance activities that the Commonwealth  may undertake, at its 
discretion: 
• review of each state’s Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements Management System, and 
• risk-based sampling of submitted audited claims for compliance with these arrangements . 
11.1.2. These activities will not constitute an engagement in accordance with Australian Auditing 
Standards or a review in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards applicable to review 
engagements, other than in second opinion engagements, and accordingly no such assurance 
will be provided by the Commonwealth  over information reviewed.  
11.1.3. Activities may be conducted by the Commonwealth , or a suitably qualified external provider.  
11.2. Objectives 
11.2.1. The objectives of the Commonwealth assurance activities are to:  
• provide the Commonwealth  with increased visibility of state relief and recovery processes, 
and changes to these processes over time,  and 
• provide sufficient and appropriate assurance to the Commonwealth  prior to payment of 
audited claims to states. 
  
 
  
  
45 
 
11.3. Annual activities 
11.3.1. In determining the approach for each state for a given year in accordance with the 
department’s risk framework, the  department may assess information obtained from a number 
of sources. These sources  include but are not limited to those outlined below.  
Information source Potential risk indicators Potential Commonwealth activities 
Assurance 
engagement on 
controls opinion 
(ASAE3150) 
• emphasis of matter paragraph  
• other matter paragraph  
• scope limitation, and 
• modified conclusions (qualified, 
adverse, or disclaimer).  
• process walkthroughs with relevant 
state agencies or councils  
• sampling of compliance with the 
criteria established under these 
arrangements  (controls testing) 
• sampling of expenditure for 
agencies/councils with identified risk 
indicators 
• request for Independent Technical 
Review 
• second opinion on internal controls (in 
rare, high risk scenarios only)  
• second opinion on expenditure claimed 
(in rare, high risk scenarios only).  
Assurance 
engagement on 
controls (ASAE3150
) 
management letter 
• identified control design 
deficiencies 
• deficiencies in implementation or 
deviations in operating 
effectiveness, and 
• identified fraud or information that 
indicates that a fraud may exist.  
Annual expenditure 
audit opinion 
(ASA 800) 
• emphasis of matter paragraph 
• other matter paragraph  
• scope limitation, and 
• modified conclusions (qualified, 
adverse, or disclaimer).  
Annual expenditure 
audit management 
letter (ASA 580) 
• concerns with accounting policies 
and accounting estimates  
• significant difficulti es encountered 
during the audit  
• identified fraud or information that 
indicates that a fraud may  exist, 
and 
• any other significant matters 
raised. 
Expenditure 
Breakdown (AGRN), 
Expenditure 
Breakdown (project) 
• high value claim for a particular 
AGRN 
• high value claim for a parti cular 
asset, project or measure,  and 
• areas of interest identified through 
data analytics.  
Eligibility queries 
• queries indicating ineligible 
 
  
  
46 
 
Information source Potential risk indicators Potential Commonwealth activities 
raised by state expenditure has been claimed.  
Publically available 
information (news 
articles etc) 
• Commonwealth  not acknowledged 
in media releases  
• insurance has been used,  and 
• indications ineligible expenditure 
has been claimed.  
11.3.2. The table above is an indication of sources of risk indicators, and potential Commonwealth 
activities. It is not an exhaustive list. Should other factors be identified, the Commonwealth  will 
conduct activities as it sees fit to assure itself of the eligibility of claims received.  
11.4. Timing and reporting 
11.4.1. If the state provides all documentation required under the financial reporting framework of 
these arrangements  to allow the Commonwealth to complete its assurance activities, the timing 
for completion of the Commonwealth’s assurance activities will be within three  (3) months.  
11.4.2. On completion of the assurance activities, the Commonwealth  may issue a report to the state 
to communicate the results of the assurance undertaken. This report may include:  
• areas of strength within current processes  
• ineligible expenditure  
• control deficiencies 
• control improvement opportunities  
• suggested cor rective actions, where required 
• future areas of focus  of the Commonwealth , and 
• any other matter deemed significant by the Commonwealth . 
11.5. Supporting information 
11.5.1. The Commonwealth  may at any time ask the state to provide information that the 
Commonwealth  considers necessary to ensure that acquittal of a  state’s audited claim is in 
accordance with the principles, conditions, and eligibility rules of these arrangements . 
11.5.2. A state must provide information requested by the Commonwealth  within one (1) month of 
request (clause 10.4 refers in regard to the types of supporting information that may be 
requested). 
11.5.3. If a state elects not to provide all or part of the supporting information requested, the 
Commonwealth  may: 
a) withhold acquittal or payment of all or part of the audited claim 
b) refuse to acquit or pay the audited claim in full, or 
c) remove the expenditure in question from the audited claim and reimburse the state based 
on the residual state expenditure.  
 
  
  
47 
 
11.6. Ineligible or unsubstantiated expenditure 
11.6.1. If any information provided by a state, including by a state appointed auditor , or identified by 
the Commonwealth  indicates that any part of the state expenditure claimed is inconsistent with 
these arrangements  or any other relevant Commonwealth  decision, the state expenditure in 
question will be removed from the audited claim. 
11.6.2. If the eligibility of any state expenditure, in the opinion of the Commonwealth , is not adequately 
substantiated by the state, the state expenditure in question will be removed from the audited 
claim. 
11.6.3. The department may appoint an independent expert to advise on the matter in question.  
11.6.4. The department will notify the state within a reasonable timeframe, where state expenditure 
has been removed from an audited claim. 
12. Seeking exemption or appealing a decision 
12.1. Seeking an exemption or non-compliance 
12.1.1. If a state is or was unable to comply with any clause, or would like to seek an exemption to a 
particular clause in these arrangements , the state must write to the department requesting 
dispensation from that clause.  
12.1.2. States may write to the department at any time within the time limit for the eligible measure to 
request non-compliance or an exemption. The request must include the circumstances which 
give rise to the state’s request. 
12.2. Appeal to the Commonwealth or Minister  
12.2.1. Where the department has made a decision under these arrangements which the state does 
not agree with, a state may appeal to the department regarding this decision.  
12.2.2. If no agreement can be reached between officials of the state and the department, the matter 
may then be referred for resolution by the state to the Minister. 
 
 
  
  
48 
 
SCHEDULES 
 
  
 
  
  
49 
 
Schedule A – Category A measures 
This schedule outlines the principles of Category A measures, the types of activities which can be 
undertaken as part of an eligible measure, as well as the delivery methods which may be used to provide 
assistance and includes the eligible costs associated with the delivery of Category A measures.  
Disasters can cause significant personal hardship and distress for those affected, including through 
dislocation, loss of personal belongings and damage to homes. While individuals are res ponsible for their 
own safety and making decisions about appropriate natural disaster mitigation strategies 
(such as insurance), government assistance may be required to support the immediate emergency needs 
of affected individuals. Such assistance, aimed at alleviating personal hardship and distress, may be 
provided in the form of a Category A measure under these arrangements . 
1. Category A principles 
a) Category A measures are intended to alleviate personal hardship and distress which is a 
direct result of an eligible disaster . 
b) Category A measures are intended to help address the immediate emergency needs of 
disaster affected individuals. 
c) Category A measures are intended to be in the nature of an emergency helping hand —
assistance should be targeted to individuals who have a genuine need, rather than those 
who can support/fund their own relief and recovery. As such, states may wish to apply 
appropriate eligibility criteria (including means and/or asset testing) to certain Category A 
measures. 
d) Category A measures can be automatically made available by the state, without requiring 
prior approval from the Commonwealth . 
e) States determine which Category A measures to make available following an eligible 
disaster.  
f) States determine the amount/level of Category A assistan ce which should be provided.  
g) States are encouraged to provide the same type and level of assistance to individuals who 
are affected by the same or similar eligible disaster s. 
h) States are responsible for administering Category A measures, including setting t he 
applicable claiming periods, assessing applications and providing assistance to eligible 
individuals.  
i) Funding for Category A is available in relation to the assistance measures (and associated 
costs) specified in this schedule, noting that this schedule is not exhaustive. 
j) Category A measures are generally only available for 12 months following an eligible 
disaster. However, they may be available for a longer period depending on the nature and 
severity of the eligible disaster . 
k) If a state wants to claim Category A assistance, Category A measures must be jointly 
announced as outlined under clause 5.2, unless otherwise agreed by the Commonwealth . 
  
 
  
  
50 
 
2. Clause 4.2.2 a) – Emergency food, clothing or temporary 
accommodation 
a) Intent of the measure:  This measure is i ntended to help individuals who have been directly 
affected by an eligible disaster  and are unable to meet their immediate emergency needs.  
b) Types of eligible assistance:  Under this measure, the state can claim costs associated with 
providing the following basic emergency assistance:  
• water— for example, providing bottled water and beverages at an evacuation centre  
• food— for example, food drops to isolated individuals and food provided at an evacuation 
centre 
• clothing— for example, providing basic emergency clo thing 
• emergency accommodation/shelter— for example, providing short -term accommodation 
at an evacuation centre or through a service provider, such as a hotel  
• transportation for individuals who need to travel to emergency accommodation — for 
example, providing  travel vouchers or arranging in -kind transportation for individuals  
• personal items — for example, providing basic medical supplies and medication.  
c) Delivery methods:  The above assistance measures may be provided through the following 
delivery methods:  
• cash payments— for example, payments provided by the state directly to an individual, 
either in the form of cash or as a direct deposit into a bank account  
• vouchers— for example, vouchers for food, accommodation and travel, or  
• in-kind— for example, providing water , food and blankets to displaced individuals at an 
evacuation centre or to isolated individuals via food drops.  
d) Associated costs:  The state can claim costs that are directly associated with delivering the 
above assistance measures, including:  
• engaging addi tional temporary personnel — for example, short -term contractors to assist 
with providing cash payments (grants) or communications and engagement activities  
• engaging service providers — for example, a private accommodation provider (such as a 
hotel) to provide  emergency accommodation 
• transportation costs — for example, bus hire and fuel costs associated with transporting 
displaced individuals to temporary accommodation or charter flight costs to supply 
emergency food to isolated communities  
• operational costs — for example, establishing and operating evacuation and recovery 
centres, including rental charges and power costs for the period a building is operating as 
an evacuation centre. This also includes establishing facilities for companion animals. It 
could also in clude establishing a temporary ‘tent city’ to accommodate displaced 
individuals and certain staffing costs.  
NOTE: See definition of state expenditure  for further information in regard to eligible staffing costs.  
  
 
  
  
51 
 
3. Clause 4.2.2 b) – Repair or replacement of essential items of 
furniture and personal effects 
a) Intent of the measure:  This measure is intended to help individuals, whose homes have 
been directly affected by an eligible disaster , to maintain a basic standard of living by 
assisting with the replacemen t of essential household items.  
 This measure is only intended for individuals who have no means of funding the 
replacement of basic essential household items themselves. As such,  states may wish to 
apply appropriate eligibility criteria (including means and/or asset testing) to determine 
whether this assistance should be provided.  
 In order to claim reimbursement of the costs associated with this measure, the state must 
be able to demonstrate the following:  
• the applicant’s home has been affected by the eligible disaster  (i.e. the applicant’s 
principal place of residence is located within the disaster affected area)  
• costs relate to the repair or replacement of eligible essential household items (i.e. that 
the household items being claimed were damaged by  the eligible disaster ), and  
• the applicant has utilised any available insurance arrangements prior to seeking 
assistance. 
Refer to clause 10.4 for further information in relation to minimum evidentiary requirements.  
b) Types of eligible assistance:  Under this measure, the state can claim the costs associated 
with repairing or replacing the following basic household items:  
• cooking utensils — for example, cutlery, pots, pans and microwave oven 
• bedding— for example, mattresses, sheets, blankets and pillows  
• furniture— for example, beds, chairs and tables  
• whitegoods — for example, kettle, refrigerator, freezer, washing machine, stove and 
vacuum cleaner . 
c) Delivery methods:  The assistance available under this measure may be provided through 
the following delivery methods:  
• cash payments — for example, payments provided by the state directly to an individual, 
either in the form of cash or as a direct deposit into a bank account  
• vouchers— for example, vouchers for repairs or the replacement of the above household 
items, or 
• in-kind— for example, by providing the above household items directly to eligible 
applicants. 
d) Associated costs:  The state can claim costs which are directly associated with delivering the 
above assistance, including:  
• engaging additional temporary personnel — for example, short-term contractors to assist 
with assessing applicants and providing payments (grants) or vouchers  
• transportation costs — for example, delivery van hire and fuel costs associated with 
transporting essential household items to eligible applicants  
• operational costs — for example, shopfront hire and power costs for the period which  
in-kind essential household items are being made available to affected individuals.  
NOTE: See definition of state expenditure  for further information in regard to eligible st affing costs.  
 
  
  
52 
 
4. Clause 4.2.2 c) – Essential repairs to housing, including 
temporary repairs and repairs necessary to restore housing to 
a habitable condition 
a) Intent of the measure:  This measure is intended to help individuals, whose homes have 
been directly damaged by an eligible disaster , to undertake essential repairs to their homes 
to make them safe, habitable and secure.  
This measure is only intended for individuals who have no  means of funding essential 
housing repairs themselves. As such, states may wish to apply appropriate eligibility criteria 
(including means and/or asset testing) to determine whether this assistance should be 
provided. 
In order to claim reimbursement of the costs associated with this measure, the state must 
be able to demonstrate the following:  
• the damage to the applicant’s home was as a direct result of the eligible disaster  
• costs relate to eligible repairs (i.e. that the repairs are associated with direc t damage 
from the eligible disaster  and are necessary to make the home safe, habitable and 
secure), and  
• the applicant has utilised any available insurance arrangements prior to seeking 
assistance. 
Refer to clause 10.4 for further information in relation to minimum evidentiary requirements.  
b) Types of eligible assistance:  Under this measure, the state can claim the costs associated 
with the following essential repairs to make housing safe, habitable and secure:  
• safety inspections — for example, structural integr ity and essential services safety checks 
• temporary repairs — for example, tarping damaged roofs and covering broken windows  
• permanent structural repairs — for example, roof repairs, repairing structural supports and 
replacing broken windows  
• reconnecting essent ial household services — for example, repairs to water, gas, electricity 
and sewerage connections.  
c) Delivery methods:  The above assistance measures may be provided through the following 
delivery methods:  
• cash payments — for example, payments provided by the state directly to an individual, 
either in the form of cash or as a direct deposit into a bank account  
• vouchers—  for example, vouchers provided by the state directly to an individual for 
essential repairs to housing, or  
• in-kind— for example, temporary repairs undertaken by the state or by a private 
contractor engaged by the state.  
  
 
  
  
53 
 
d) Associated costs:  The state can claim costs which are directly associated with delivering the 
above assistance, including:  
• engaging additional temporary personnel — for example, short-term contractors to assist 
with assessing applicants and providing payments (grants)  
• engaging service providers — for example, a private company to undertake safety checks 
and repair works  
• operational costs — for example, consumable costs (such as tarps,  ropes, chains and 
fuel), transportation costs, vehicle and equipment repairs and servicing and certain 
staffing costs.  
NOTE: See definition of state expenditure  for further information in regard to eligible staffing costs.  
5. Clause 4.2.2 d) – Demolition or rebuilding to restore housing to 
a habitable condition  
a) Intent of the measure:  This measure is intended to help individuals, whose homes have 
been destroyed or significantly damaged by an eligible disaster , with demolition and 
rebuilding activities so that  they can restore their homes to a safe, habitable and secure 
condition.  
This measure is only intended for individuals who have no means of funding the demolition 
and rebuilding activities themselves. As such, states may wish to apply appropriate eligibil ity 
criteria (including means and/or asset testing) to determine whether this assistance should 
be provided.  
In order to claim reimbursement of the costs associated with this measure, the state must 
be able to demonstrate the following:  
• the applicant is th e owner of the home and it is their principal place of residence 
• the damage to the applicant’s home was directly from the impacts of the eligible disaster   
• the applicant is intending to rebuild their home in the same location 
• costs relate to eligible demol ition or rebuilding activities (i.e. that the demolition or 
rebuilding activities are associated with damage from the eligible disaster  and are 
necessary to restore housing to a safe, habitable and secure condition), and 
• the applicant has utilised any avai lable insurance arrangements prior to seeking 
assistance.  
Please refer to clause 10.4 for further information in relation to minimum evidentiary 
requirements.  
b) Types of eligible assistance:  Under this measure, the state can claim the costs associated 
with undertaking the following activities:  
• demolition of the residential property  
• removal of disaster damaged related building materials and debris  
• preparing the residential block for the purpose of rebuilding 
• rebuilding of the residential home, that is beyond repair and has been demolished, 
to a condition equivalent to the pre -disaster standard of the damaged home 
(i.e. to the same size and utility).  
  
 
  
  
54 
 
c) Delivery methods:  The above assistance measures may be provided through the following 
delivery methods:  
• cash payments — for example, payments provided by the state directly to an individual, 
either in the form of cash or as a direct deposit into a bank account   
• vouchers— for example, vouchers provided by the state or a local government to 
households so that households can undertake demolition (where they are beyond repair) 
and rebuilding (where damage is not beyond repair) activities, or 
• in-kind— for example, if the state engages a private contractor to undertake demolition or 
rebuilding activities.  
d) Associated costs:  The state can claim costs which are directly associated with delivering the 
above assistance, including:  
• engaging additional temporary personnel — for example, short -term contractors to assist 
with assessing applicants and providing payments (grants)  
• engaging service providers — for example, a private company to undertake demolition 
and rebuilding activities  
• demolition or rebuilding related debris removal costs — for example:  
− transportation and disposal costs  
− operations to remove hazardous waste (such as asbestos) 
− establishment of temporary dump sites to accommodate debris removal from homes 
(including establishment, operation and decommissioning costs).  
NOTE: See defini tion of state expenditure  for further information in regard to eligible staffing costs.  
6. Clause 4.2.2 e) – Removal of debris from residential properties 
to make them safe and habitable 
a) Intent of the measure:  This measure is intended to help individuals with the removal of 
disaster related debris from their home to make it safe and habitable, and therefore 
preventing displacement. This measure is not intended to cover non -essential debris 
removal activities oc curring beyond the immediate vicinity of a residential property (i.e.  the 
residential block).  
  
 
  
  
55 
 
b) Types of eligible assistance:  Under this measure, the state can claim the costs associated 
with the following debris removal activities from residential propert ies: 
• clean-up activities inside and immediately outside a home 
• removal of fallen trees and green waste  
• removal of flood related debris (such as mud, damaged furniture and whitegoods)  
• removal of trees which have become dangerous as a direct result of the eligible disaster  
• removal and disposal of spoiled perishable food 
• removal of hazardous material (such as asbestos) which has been exposed as a direct 
result of the eligible disaster.  
[If, as a direct result of the eligible disaster , hazardous material that  is located 
immediately beyond the residential block is causing potential health and safety risks for 
the resident(s) it  is also eligible to be removed]  
• removal of disaster damaged related building material debris (such as tiles, bricks and 
broken glass)  
• removal of septic waste  
• clearing blocked drains, guttering and downpipes.  
c) Delivery methods:  The assistance available under this measure may be provided through 
the following delivery methods:  
• cash payments — for example, payments provided by the state direct ly to an individual, 
either in the form of cash or as a direct deposit into a bank account  
• vouchers— for example, vouchers provided by the state or a local government to 
households so that households can dispose of disaster related debris at a dumpsite, or 
• in-kind— for example, debris removal activities being undertaken by a local government 
or by a private contractor engaged by the state. 
d) Associated costs:  The state can claim costs which are directly associated with delivering the 
above assistance, including : 
• engaging service providers — for example, a private company to undertake debris 
removal activities 
• debris removal costs — for example:  
− transportation and disposal costs  
− operations to remove hazardous waste (such as asbestos) 
− establishment of temporary dump  sites to accommodate debris removal from the 
home (including establishment, operation and decommissioning costs) 
• hiring additional specialised cleaning machinery (including hire, transport and 
operation/running costs)— for example, pressure hoses  
• replacement of consumable items — for example, chainsaw chains and fuel  
• certain staffing costs — for example, overtime and allowances waived (foregone) 
revenue— for example, if a local council allows households to dispose of disaster related 
debris free of cost as a cou ncil owned dumpsite.  
NOTE: See definition of state expenditure  for further information in regard to eligible staffing costs.  
 
  
  
56 
 
7. Clause 4.2.2 f) – Extraordinary counter disaster operations for 
the benefit of an affected individual  
a) Intent of the measure:  This measure is intended to provide assistance to individuals who are 
under threat from, or who have been directly affected by, an eligible disaster. 
In order to claim reimbursement of the costs associated with this measure, the state must 
be able to demonstrate  that the costs are ‘extraordinary’ in accordance with the following 
advice: 
‘Extraordinary’ CDO costs  
The method in which a state determines normal funding allocations for counter disaster 
operations (CDO) activities is a matter for the state. However, to claim costs associated with 
Category A CDO, a state must be able to demonstrate that the costs:  
• exceed the costs which a state could reasonably have expected to incur for these 
purposes (for example, ‘extraordinary’ CDO costs may be demonstrated by a state 
disaster response agency seeking supplementary funding, over and above normal 
funding allocations, through state budget processes or if a local government is required 
to engage additional personnel to undertake eligible CDO activities), and  
• relate to eligible CDO activities.  
b) Types of eligible assistance:  Under this measure, the state can claim the ‘extraordinary ’ 
costs associated with the following CDO assistance directly to an individual:  
• search and rescue operations  
• evacuation of threatened/affected people (including companion animals) 
• sandbagging and/or the construction of portable temporary levees/flood barriers 
to prevent inundation of residential properties  
• bushfire response activities to directly assist an individual  
• tree bracing to protect damage to residential properties  
• rapid damage assessments on residential properties  
• residential water safety testing  
• cleaning and refilling residential potable water systems  
• cleaning and refilling residential septic tanks to make them operational  
• establishment of temporary access routes to allow individuals to return home , and 
• establishment of temporary access routes required to undertake the above activities.  
c) Delivery methods:  The assistance available under this measure may be provided through 
the following delivery methods:  
• cash payments — for example, payments provided by the state directly to an individual, 
either in the form of cash or as a direct deposit into a bank account  
• vouchers— for example, vouchers provided by the state or a local government to 
individuals so that they can have their water tested, or 
• in-kind— for example, CDO activities being undertaken by a state agency, a local 
government or a private contractor engaged by the state. 
  
 
  
  
57 
 
d) Associated costs:  The state can claim costs which are directly associated with delivering the 
above assistance, including:  
• engaging service providers — for example, a private company to undertake tree bracing 
activities 
• non-capital expenses  incurred while undertaking eligible CDO activities including 
tarpaulins, ropes, chainsaw chains, fuel and fire retardant  
• transportation of labour, equipment and materials to perform eligible CDO activities  
• hire of additional plant and equipment, other tha n aerial firefighting aircraft  
• vehicle or equipment repairs and additional servicing required as a direct consequence 
of an eligible CDO activity  
• staffing costs, including for volunteers and interstate personnel  
• restoring assets directly damaged during el igible CDO activities — for example, repairing 
fencing that was damaged when establishing bushfire containment lines  
• resupply of water on residential properties that have been used for eligible firefighting 
activities, and  
• cleaning up debris which resulted f rom an eligible CDO activity.  
NOTE: See definition of state expenditure  for further information in regard to eligible staffing costs.  
[See Guideline 2 – Counter disaster operations  for further information.]  
8. Clause 4.2.2 g) – Personal and financial counselling 
a) Intent of measure: This measure is intended to help individuals who are suffering personal 
hardship and distress as a direct result of an eligible disaster by providing them with 
personal and financial counselling in the immediate aftermath of the eligible disaster.  
b) Types of eligible assistance:  Under this measure, the state can claim the costs associated 
with the following activities:  
• assessing the financial, personal, emotional and psychological needs of disaster affected 
individuals and famil ies 
• offering specialised individual or group counselling services to those suffering the effects 
of the eligible disaster  
• providing information about the range of assistance measures available to disaster 
affected individuals and liaising with disaster ass istance delivery agencies  
• undertaking outreach strategies to provide eligible measures  in remote and regional 
disaster affected communities  
• assisting with disaster related claims to insurance companies  
• providing referrals to specialist financial, legal and psychological services regarding 
disaster and non- disaster related matters.  
NOTE: Personal and financial counselling assistance must have a direct disaster recovery focus to be 
considered eligible under these arrangements .  
  
 
  
  
58 
 
c) Delivery methods:  The above assistance measures may be provided through the following 
delivery methods:  
• cash payments — for example, payments provided by the state directly to an individual, 
either in the form of cash or as a direct deposit into a bank account  
• vouchers— for example, vouchers to attend counselling services, or  
• in-kind— for example, counselling services provided by the state agency (such as 
through the state department of human services or an equivalent agency) or by a private 
service provider engaged by the state. 
d) Associated eligible costs:  The state can claim costs which are directly associated with 
delivering the above assistance, including:  
• engaging additional temporary personnel — for example:  
- short-term contractors to assist with assessing applicants and providing payments 
(grants) or vouchers  
- contract counsellors to provide counselling to affected individuals  
• engaging service providers — for example, a specialist counselling organisation  
• transportation costs — for example, car hire, fuel and accommodation for counsellors 
undertaking outreach 
• publication/printing costs associated with providing disaster specific counselling 
information to affected individuals  
• certain staffing costs — for example, overtime and allowances for state employed 
counsellors.  
NOTE: See definition of state expenditure  for further information in regard to eligible staffing costs.  
[See Guideline 2 – Counter disaster operations  for further information.]  
9. Clause 4.2.2 h) – The employment of a Community Recovery 
Officer 
a) Intent of measure: This measure is intended to assist and improve the state’s recovery effort 
when the impacts and circumstances of an eligible disaster are of such a nature and scale 
that they warrant the administration of emergency assistance for individuals and families 
under clause 4.2.2 a), b) and c).  
The role of a Community Recovery Officer will include the identification of the specific 
recovery needs of affected individuals and families, and to assist the state in seeking 
additional assistance that may be required under these arrangements  to support impacted 
communities. 
The state can employ one twelve  month full-time equivalent Community Recovery Officer  
per eligible disaster  within the time limit to claim Category  A expenditure of 24  months after 
the end of the financial year in which the relevant eligible disaster occurred.  
The state is responsible for managing the twelve month full-time equivalent engagement —
for example, the state can decide to employ two 1.0 FTE Community Recovery Officers  for 
six months each, or three 1.0 FTE Community Recovery Officers  for four months each, or 
one 0.5 FTE Community Recovery Officer  for two years — provided the expenditure claimed 
for this measure equals one twelve month full -time equivalent  engagement . 
  
 
  
  
59 
 
b) Types of eligible costs : Under this measure, eligible costs for the engagement of a 
Community Recovery Officer include: 
• employment costs for contractors or temporary (fixed-term) employees  engaged as a 
Community Recovery Officer , and 
• other temporary costs for contractors or temporary (fixed- term) employees  engaged as a 
Community Recovery Officer , such as setting up a temporary office (for example, short -
term leasing costs for the temporary office) ; vehicle hire; travel expenses, allowances 
and accommodation .  
c) Types of ineligible costs : Under this measure, ineligible costs  would include those 
associated with Community Recovery Officer/s utilising existing state and /or local 
government assets such as accommodation, vehicles , and other administrative costs for 
which the state and/or local government would have been liable for had the eligible disaster 
not occurred . 
 
 
  
  
60 
 
Schedule B – Independent Technical Review 
1 Application 
1.1 Independent Technical Review  of claims made under these arrangements  for the 
reconstruction  of essential public assets  is required in the following circumstances:  
Application One The estimated reconstruction cost  for the project is 
$25 million or more.  
Application Two Where an alternative reconstruction  project solution 
is preferred and there is a variance between the 
estimated reconstruction cost  for the original project 
and the preferred reconstruction project solution that 
is:  
• more than 50 per cent lower than the estimated 
reconstruction cost  of the original project, and  
• between $5 million and $25  million. 
Application Three Where special circumstances  are encountered 
which give rise to a variance in the estimated 
reconstruction cost  for the project that is: 
• greater than 15  per cent of the estimated 
reconstruction cost  of the original project, and  
• greater than $1  million. 
Application Four The Commonwealth , on receiving  the estimated 
reconstruction cost  for a project from a state within 
its financial year claim, elects to have it reviewed.  
1.2 States must identify when an Independent Technical Review  is required and identify whether it 
is under Application One, Two or Three . 
2 Application One 
2.1 Where the estimated reconstruction cost  for the reconstruction of an essential public asset  
project is $25 million or more.  
Role of the Technical Reviewer 
2.2 The Technical Reviewer  will: 
• review and evaluate the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  to provide the same 
pre-disaster function to the community as it did before the eligible disaster, and 
• identify if pre-disaster function reconstruction  is either cost-prohibitive or impractical.  
  
 
  
  
61 
 
Process 
2.3 Figure 1 demonstrates the process that would be followed for Application One. 
Figure 1 – Application One process 
 
Timing 
2.4 Figure 2 demonstrates the time line for Application One. 
Figure 2 – Timeine for Application One 
 
2.5 Application One will occur during the development of estimated reconstruction cost  (shown in 
red in Figure 2).  
 

 
  
  
62 
 
2.6 The state must provide the Commonwealth  with a copy of the Technical Reviewer’s report with 
the state’s claim pack.  
Recommendations 
2.7 The Report of the Technical Reviewer must : 
a) provide a conclusion on the review and evaluation of the accuracy of the estimated 
reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster function reconstruction  of the essential public a sset, and 
b) identify if pre-disaster function reconstruction  of the essential public asset  is cost prohibitive 
or not practical . 
3 Application Two 
3.1 Where an alternative reconstruction project solution is preferred and there is a variance 
between the estimated reconstruction cost  for the original project  and the preferred 
reconstruction project solution that is:  
• more than 50 per cent lower than the estimated reconstruction cost  of the original project, 
and 
• between $5 million and $25  million. 
Role of the Technical Reviewer 
3.2 The Technical Reviewer  will: 
• review and evaluate the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster 
function reconstruction  
• review and evaluate the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  of an alternative 
solution for reconstruction,  and 
• review and evaluate the rationale for the alternative  reconstruction project solution for 
reconstruction  of the essential public asset . 
  
 
  
  
63 
 
Process 
3.3 Figure 3 demonstrates the process that would be followed for Application Two. 
Figure 3 – Application Two process 
 
Timing 
3.4 Figure 2 demonstrates the timeline for Application  Two. 
Figure 4 – Timeine for Application Two 
 
3.5 Application Two will occur during the development of estimated reconstruction cost  (shown in 
red in Figure 4 ). 
 

 
  
  
64 
 
3.6 The state must provide the Commonwealth  with a copy of the Technical Reviewer’s report with 
the state’s audited claim as prescribed in the claim pack. 
Recommendations 
3.7 The report of the Technical Reviewer must : 
a) confirm the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster function  
reconstruction  of the essential public asset 
b) confirm the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  of the alternative technical 
solution for reconstruction of the essential public asset, and 
c) confirm the rationale for the alternative technical solution for reconstruction of the essential 
public asset. 
4 Application Three 
4.1 A Technical Reviewer may be engaged to review the amendment of  an established estimated 
reconstruction cost  of the project if: 
• one or more special circumstances  apply (see Table  1), and 
• the estimated reconstruction cost  of the original project has varied by greater than 
15 per cent, and 
• the estimated reconstruction cost  of the original project has increased by greater than 
$1 million. 
Table 1.  Special circumstances 
May be considered Will not be considered 
• Geotechnical conditions that could not 
reasonably have been foreseen or investigated 
in the design period.  
• Previously unidentified indigenous or cultural 
heritage discoveries  
• Previously unidentified heritage discoveries  
• Delays caused by subsequent eligible disaster 
events 
• Environmental conditions that could not have 
reasonably been foreseen (for example , 
threatened species discovery) 
• Safety threats that could not reasonably have 
been foreseen (for example,  asbestos 
discovery)  
• Critical reduction in water availability  that could 
not reasonably have been foreseen or 
investigated in the design period.  
• Poor/inadequate planning or project 
management  
• Poor/inadequate resourcing and materials  
• Land access or property acquisition delays  
• Consultation delays (for example , with the 
community or a specialist advisor)  
• Complexity in design/construction 
• Changes in building standards, codes or 
specifications  
• Industrial conditions/actions  
• Seasonal changes/inclement weather 
• Council or other local government/jurisdiction 
decisions or delays 
• Heritage listings  
• Changes to the cost of materials  
 
  
  
65 
 
Role of the Technical Reviewer 
4.2 The Technical Reviewer  will:  
• review and evaluate the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster 
function reconstruction  
• review and evaluate the accuracy of the amended estimated reconstruction cost  
• review and evaluate the amended reconstruction project  solution is directly attributable to 
the special circumstances , and  
• identify if pre-disaster function reconstruction  is now cost-prohibitive or impractical.  
Process 
4.3 Figure 5 demonstrates the process that would be followed for Application Three. 
Figure 5 – Application Three process 
 
  

 
  
  
66 
 
Timing 
4.4 Figure 6 demonstrates  the timeline for Application Three. 
Figure 6 – Timeline for Application Three 
 
4.5 Application Three will occur following the development of an amended estimated 
reconstruction cost  for a project. A special circumstances time limit of 24 months from the end 
of the financial year in which the relevant eligible disaster occurred will apply.  For claims due to 
special circumstances , the estimated reconstruction cost  must be submitted to the 
Commonwealth  within the special circumstances time limit. (shown in red in Figure 6). 
4.6 The state must provide the Commonwealth  with a copy of the Technical Reviewer’s report as 
soon as reasonably practicable  following the completion of the review . 
Recommendations 
4.7 The Report of the Technical Reviewer  must: 
a) provide a conclusion on the review and evaluation of the accuracy of the estimated 
reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster function reconstruction  of the essential public asset  
b) confirm the accuracy of the amended estimated reconstruction cost , comprising additional 
costs resulting from a special circumstance 
c) confirm any additional costs are directly attributa ble to the special circumstance , and  
d) identify if pre-disaster function reconstruction  of the essential public a sset is  
cost-prohibitive or not practical.  
  

 
  
  
67 
 
5 Application Four 
5.1 The Commonwealth , on receiving  an estimated reconstruction cost  for a project from a state 
within its financial year audited claim, elects to have it reviewed. 
Role of the Technical Reviewer 
5.2 Review and evaluate the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster function 
reconstruction of a project.  
Process 
5.3 Figure 7 demonstrates the process that would be followed f or Application Four. 
Figure 7 – Application Four process 
 
  

 
  
  
68 
 
Timing 
5.4 Figure 8 demonstrates the timeline for Application Four.  
Figure 8 – Timeline for Application Four  
 
5.5 Application Four will be initiated once an audited claim has been submitted by the state  
(shown in red in Figure 8).  
Recommendations 
5.6 The Report of the Technical Reviewer  must: 
a) provide a conclusion on the review and evaluation of the accuracy of the estimated 
reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster function reconstruction  of the essential public asset . 
6 Criteria for Technical Reviewer  
6.1 The Technical Reviewer  will be required to provide an opinion of probable reconstruction  cost 
(estimate), together with relevant technical advice.  
6.2 A Technical Reviewer must: 
a) be a suitably qualified professional with the appropriate le vel of expertise and experience  
b) demonstrate ability to resource the required services so as not to delay the submission of 
estimated reconstruction cost  
c) be able to provide independent, without conflict, advice  to both the state and 
Commonwealth 
d) be independent of the delivery agent,  and 
e) have the report verified and signed by an engineer or quantity surveyor with the appropriate 
level of expertise and experienc e 
6.3 A state agency may be able to perform an Independent Technical Review providing they meet 
the above criteria.  

 
  
  
69 
 
7 Administration 
Notifications 
Applications One – Three 
7.1 The state must notify the Commonwealth  in writing of the use of a Technical Reviewer  for an 
Independent Technical Review  within five (5) business days  of engagement of the Technical 
Reviewer. 
7.2 The notification must include the following information:  
a) the agency responsible for delivery of the essential public asset  reconstruction  works 
b) the reconstruction project to be undertak en 
c) the application under which the Technical Reviewer will review (Application One, Two or 
Three), and 
d) the Technical Reviewer undertaking the review.  
Application Four 
7.3 The Commonwealth  will notify the state in writing of the use of a Technical Reviewer within 
five (5) business days following which the state will have 10 business days in which to collate 
the required documentation  (as listed below).  
8 Evidence 
8.1 The following evidence for the reconstruction project must be provided to a Technical 
Reviewer: 
a) damage assessment  
b) estimated reconstruction cost  
c) preliminary design (if applicable)  
d) (Application Three only) demonstration of special circumstances  (including geotechnical, 
cultural heritage, environmental and safety reports).  
9 Report Format 
9.1 The Technical Reviewer  must provide a report that includes:  
a) cover sheet (see template provided at Appendix A)  
b) analysis – the report must include an analysis of the evidence provided in support of the 
estimate(s) 
c) findings – the report must include discussion in respect of the evidence provided and how it 
supports the estimate(s),  and 
d) recommendations.  
 
  
  
70 
 
10 Sign off 
10.1 The report must be signed by a n engineer with the appropriate level of expertise and 
experience, and include a statement in respect of the Technical Reviewer’s independence (see 
Cover Sheet template provided at Appendix A).  
11 Costs 
11.1 States will bear the cost of procuring an Independent Technical Review  under 
Applications One, Two and Three. States will be able to claim those costs as an eligible 
measure under these arrangements .  
11.2 The Commonwealth  will bear all costs associated with an Independent Technical Review 
procured under Application Four.  
12 Conflicting reports 
12.1 Where the Technical Reviewer ’s report is inconsistent with a state’s submitted estimated 
reconstruction cost , the report from the Technical Reviewer  will prevail. 
12.2 Where the Commonwealth ’s Technical Revi ewer’s report is inconsistent with the state’s 
Technical Reviewer ’s report, both Technical Reviewers may be requested to hold a conference 
for the purpose of resolving the discrepancies in their findings.  
12.3 Where the Technical Reviewer s cannot reach agreemen t, the Commonwealth  will exercise 
discretion and may adopt the recommendations from the report with the lowest value estimated 
reconstruction cost . 
  
 
  
  
71 
 
Appendix A – Technical Reviewer Report 
Technical Reviewer Report 
AGRN   State Project ID No.   
Asset Category   Asset Type   
Location   Region   
Date of Estimate   Submitted estimated 
reconstruction cost 
  
Project Description 
 
 
Independence Statement 
This report was prepared on account of a request from [Insert Name] . In preparing this report [Technical 
Reviewer] has acted independently and in a strictly professional manner. Recommendations made in this 
report represent the independent, professional view of [Technical Reviewer] . 
 
Signed:   
Date:   
 
 
  
 
  
  
72 
 
Appendix B – Technical Reviewer Checklist 
Technical Reviewer Evidence Checklist  
AGRN   State Project ID No.   
Asset Category   Asset Type   
Location   Region   
Date of Estimate   Submitted estimated 
reconstruction cost 
  
The following evidence is attached: 
□ Damage assessment of relevant essential public asset(s) , prepared in accordance with these 
arrangements . 
□ Estimated reconstruction cost  of relevant essential public asset(s), prepared in accordance with these 
arrangements . 
□ Relevant design documentation and any relevant site investigation reports.  
□ Detail of special circumstances  with supporting evidence for why the circumstance could not reasonably 
have been predicted. [Application Three only] 
If any of the required evidence was not provided, indica te why it is not applicable:  
 
Date:   
 
 
  
 
  
  
73 
 
Appendix C – Brief for Technical Reviewer 
Brief for Technical Reviewer  
AGRN   State Project ID No.   
Asset Category   Asset Type   
Location   Region   
Date of estimated 
reconstruction cost 
  Submitted estimated 
reconstruction cost 
  
Independent Technical Review Application: [Insert Application 1 / Application 2 / Application 3 / 
Application 4] 
[Insert description of Application]  
 
Technical Reviewer: [Insert Name]  
You have been engaged to independently  review the estimated reconstruction cost  of a project for the 
reconstruction of damaged essential public asset(s), in accordance with the processes set out in these 
arrangements .  
[If Technical Reviewer is engaged to sign off on report – Delete if not applicable] 
It is expected that you will review and sign off on the report setting out the estimated reconstruction cost  of 
a project for the reconstruction  of damaged essential public asset(s)  which: 
a) Reviews and evaluates the accuracy of the estimated reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster function  
reconstruction . 
b) Identifies if pre- disaster function  reconstruction  is either cost -prohibitive or not practical.  
[If Technical Reviewer is engaged to prepare a report – Delete if not applicable] 
It is expected th at you will prepare a report which:  
a) Reviews and evaluates the accuracy of  estimated reconstruction cost  of pre-disaster function 
reconstruction . 
b) Identifies if pre- disaster function  reconstruction  is either cost -prohibitive or not practical.  
[Application Three only – Delete if not applicable] 
a) Reviews and evaluates the accuracy of the amended estimated reconstruction cost . 
b) Reviews and evaluates the amended reconstruction project  solution is directly attributable to the 
special circumstances . 
c) Identifies if pre- disaster function  reconstruction  is either cost prohibitive or not practical.  
Date:   
 
 