Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations – East Coast Severe Weather Event (AGRN 1212) – Guidelines | Service NSW Home Apply for the Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations – East Coast Severe Weather Event (AGRN 1212) – Guidelines These guidelines detail the purpose of the grant, eligibility criteria, the assessment process and how the grant will be operated. Listen These guidelines relate to Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations – East Coast Severe Weather Event (AGRN1212). 1 About the program 1.1 Made by the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments under the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements 2018 (DRFA), the objective of the assistance measure (Program) is to support Small Businesses and Non-for-Profit Organisations that were located within the relevant Impacted Area and suffered Direct Damage as a result of: AGRN 1212 NSW East Coast Severe Weather from 18 May 2025. 1.2 The Program is intended to further assist Small Businesses and Non-for-Profit Organisations that have already received the maximum $25,000 grant funding under the AGRN 1212 Category C Small Business and Non-Profit Organisations Grant (Category C grant) with the costs of clean-up and Reinstatement where they suffered Direct Damage as a result of the Eligible Disaster. 1.3 The Program is being administered in accordance with the requirements of the Grants Administration Guide 2024 and the DRFA and is a joint initiative between the Commonwealth and NSW Governments. Service NSW and the NSW Reconstruction Authority are jointly responsible for compliance with the Grants Administration Guide. 1.4 Service NSW is the Administering Agency, and the NSW Reconstruction Authority is the Policy Owner. 2 Available funding 2.1 In line with these guidelines, the maximum grant amount for clean-up and Reinstatement is $25,000 on the provision of the evidence listed under clause 7. 2.2 Funding is limited to one grant application per eligible applicant. Multiple eligible items adding up to the maximum grant amount of $25,000 can be included in the one application, noting each claim must be linked to AGRN 1212 NSW East Coast Severe Weather from 18 May 2025. 3 Timeframe and key dates 3.1 Applications for this Program will be accepted from 23 June 2026. 3.2 Applications for this Program will close at 11:59 pm on 21 January 2027. 4 How funding may be used 4.1 Funds may be used to help cover additional costs associated with clean-up and Reinstatement of the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation in connection to AGRN 1212 NSW East Coast Severe Weather from 18 May 2025. This includes: engaging tradespersons to conduct a safety inspection of damage to a property, premises or equipment; hiring and leasing equipment or purchasing materials to clean a property, premises or equipment; in certain circumstances, purchasing equipment may be considered eligible on a case-by-case basis, if demonstrated to be more cost effective and approved by Service NSW and the NSW Reconstruction Authority; paying additional wages to an existing employee, or employing a person to clean the damaged property, premises or equipment, where: i. the cost would not ordinarily have been incurred in the absence of the Eligible Disaster; or ii. the cost exceeds the cost that would ordinarily have been incurred in the absence of the Eligible Disaster; removing and disposing of debris, damaged goods or materials; removing and disposing of spoiled goods and stock; essential repairs and replacements to premises and internal fittings (e.g. floor coverings, electrical rewiring, shelving), where these are essential for resuming operation of the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation. If the repair or replacement is for a business that is home-based, applicants may only claim the costs for the repair or replacement of that part of the building or fixture that is directly attributable to the business operations, not for other household damage; purchasing, hiring or leasing equipment or materials that are essential for immediately resuming operation of the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation; and any of the following: i. replacing lost or damaged stock, where the replacement is essential for immediately resuming operation of the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation; or ii. leasing temporary premises (for 12 months or less) in the same region or LGA, for the purpose of resuming operation of the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation. A home-based business may only claim for repair or replacement to the portion of the building or fixture that is: i. owned by the Small Business, evidenced by a title search and/or Certificate of Title, and ii. used predominantly for business activities, evidenced by financial records, photos, video evidence or a statutory declaration. 4.2 Funds cannot be used to help pay for costs associated with the following: repairs to a building the applicant leases for residential or commercial purposes, unless the applicant lets the property in the course of operating a Small Business, evidenced by a Private Ruling issued by the ATO or an accountant’s letter; loss of income as a result of the Eligible Disaster; payment of employee salaries that would ordinarily have been incurred by the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation had the Eligible Disaster not occurred; where the applicant is entitled to, has received, or has been approved to receive, an amount under a policy of insurance for the relevant costs claimed. The applicant may be eligible for a grant for the portion of costs not covered by their insurance, or for amounts in excess of the value insured; where the applicant has received or has been approved to receive financial assistance from another government assistance scheme for an item described in clause 4.1. The applicant is not eligible for payment under this Program for the same expense amount. However, where only part of an expense has been reimbursed under the AGRN1212 Category C - Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit (due to the applicant reaching the $25,000 funding cap), the remaining unreimbursed portion of that expense may be considered eligible under this Program; any consequential loss or loss of market opportunity resulting from the Eligible Disaster; improvements to property, premises, or equipment beyond what existed pre-disaster, and for costs recouped through the sale of salvaged assets. Equipment purchases must be like-for-like and of similar value to what existed pre-disaster, noting that exact replacements may not be available and within reason, equivalent alternatives may be required. 5 Eligibility criteria 5.1 To be eligible, the applicant must: either be a Small Business or a Non-profit Organisation; have previously been approved for, and received the maximum amount of $25,000 available under the Recovery Grant for Small Business and Non-Profits in relation to the AGRN 1212 NSW East Coast Severe Weather; have additional eligible unreimbursed costs for activities described in sub-section 4.1 that exceed the maximum grant amount received under the Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations in relation to the AGRN 1212 NSW East Coast Severe Weather. be located in the Impacted Area at the time of Eligible Disaster (see evidence requirements listed in clause 7.1); have suffered Direct Damage to premises and/or tools of trade (see evidence requirements listed in clause 7.2); be intending to re-establish in the same community, region or sector as the Impacted Area; be primarily responsible for meeting the costs claimed in the application for costs relating to activities in clause 4.1; and irrespective of any other clause, not be: i. a Public Company that is not a Non-profit Organisation; ii. a body corporate under the Strata Schemes Management Act 2015; and iii. a Superannuation Fund. 5.2 Eligible Small Businesses To be eligible as a Small Business, the business must: have a total of all standard hours worked by all employees (whether full-time or part-time) that is less than the number of standard hours which would be worked by 20 full-time employees, as defined by the Australian Bureau of Statistics; in the case of a Sole Trader with no employees, the sole trader must derive at least 50 per cent of their income from the business; hold an ABN active at the time of the Eligible Disaster. own a small business located in the Impacted Area for the Eligible Disaster; have been engaged in carrying on the Small Business when affected by the Eligible Disaster; not derive 50 per cent or more of income from carrying on a Primary Production Enterprise unless your income is from activities involving animals that are not bred for farm work, food or fibre; hunting and trapping activities; or agriculture, forestry and fishing support services. not be part of a national chain. Individual franchises may be eligible if they meet the other applicable criteria in clause 5.1 and this clause 5.2; have not received a Special Disaster Relief Grant or Rural Landholders Grant provided by Rural Assistance Authority for AGRN 1212 and declared the same with Service NSW. In circumstances where clause 5.2(b) is not met, the business may still be eligible as a Small Business if: i. the business is in start-up mode with the intention of being the applicant's primary source of income (at least 50 per cent) in a relatively short period of time, immediately prior to the Eligible Disaster (e.g. premises being prepared but trading had not yet commenced); ii. the business had been the applicant's primary source of income and would have become so again in a relatively short period of time had the Eligible Disaster not occurred; iii. there has been substantial capital investment into the business (e.g. salary/wages from employment or monies from elsewhere) for building up the business such that it was close to becoming a viable commercial operation immediately prior to the Eligible Disaster; and iv. they are operating more than two separate and distinct business entities (e.g. three businesses each providing 33 per cent of a sole trader's income). 5.3 Eligible Non-profit Organisations To be eligible as a Non-profit Organisation, the organisation must: be registered with the ACNC; be registered with NSW Fair Trading (or an equivalent State/Territory regulatory body) as: i. an incorporated association; or ii. a non-distributing cooperative; be registered with an equivalent State/Territory regulatory body and have held that registration at the time of the Eligible Disaster; or be established as a company limited by guarantee that has language in the Non-profit Organisation’s constitution stating that they are established and operated for a purpose other than the generation of profit not be included on the National Redress Scheme’s website on the list of ‘Institutions that have not joined or signified their intent to join the Scheme’. 6 Eligible separate businesses and co-location 6.1 Eligible Separate Businesses Where an applicant operates more than one distinct Small Business under a single ABN, they may apply for assistance in respect of each business, provided each one meets the criteria of an Eligible Separate Small Business up to the maximum grant amount available under this Program per business. In determining an application under clause 6.1(a) Service NSW may consider factors including (without limitation): i. separate staffing arrangements; ii. dedicated plant, equipment or stock, iii. distinct accounting and insurance arrangements; iv. use of separate business names; and v. the commercial viability and autonomy of each business, assuming the other businesses cease to operate. 6.2 Co-location Where two or more independent and separately owned and registered Small Businesses or Non-profit Organisations operate from the same premises, each may receive the maximum available grant amount under this Program, provided applicants can demonstrate that: i.    they are independent and separately owned and registered with their own ABN (in the case of a Small Business) or relevant registration (in the case of a Non-profit Organisation) from the other Small Business or Non-profit Organisation at that premises; ii.    they are each eligible for the grant in their own right, in line with clause 5 (as applicable); iii.    they are claiming for different expenses compared to the other Small Business or Non-profit Organisation (as the case may be) who are operating at the same premises; and iv.    the expenses that they are claiming are essential to their operations. 7 Evidence 7.1 Evidence of location within the Impacted Area If the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation owns the property, the applicant must provide: i.    a copy of a Council Rates Notice for the property impacted by the Eligible Disaster, received up to 12 months prior to the commencement of this Program; or ii.    other evidence to demonstrate ownership. If the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation leases the property, the applicant must provide: i.    a copy of the current lease agreement (lease agreement must confirm that the applicant is responsible for meeting the costs being claimed); or ii.    other evidence to demonstrate lease of property. Where the documents listed under clauses 7.1(a) and 7.1(b) cannot be provided, the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation may instead submit at least two of the following types of documents from different categories below as evidence of location within the Impacted Area: i. Utility bills (e.g. electricity, gas, water) issued within 6 months prior to the commencement of this Program; ii. Rental payment records or a rental ledger issued within 6 months prior to the commencement of this Program; iii. Insurance documents in effect or issued within 12 months prior to the commencement of this Program; iv. Supplier invoices dated within 3 months prior to the commencement of this Program; v. Vehicle registration notice issued within 12 months prior to the commencement of this Program (excluding Digital Vehicle Registration); vi. Contractor licences current at the time of the Eligible Disaster. Each document must: i. Be in the name of the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation; and ii. Include the address of the affected premises. This list is indicative, not exhaustive. Other documents that support evidence of location may be accepted at the discretion of Service NSW, the NSW Reconstruction Authority, or their service providers. If the Small Business Non-profit Organisation does not have a fixed address within the Impacted Area but operates there on a part-time or regular basis, and their property, plant and/or equipment was damaged as a result of the Eligible Disaster, they may still be eligible. In such cases, the applicant must: i. meet the eligibility criteria in clause 5; and ii. provide evidence to demonstrate regular operations in the Impacted Area and Direct Damage to property, plant or equipment, as required by these guidelines. NOTE: Applicants are not required to re-submit evidence of location under this section where they declare in their application that the location details previously provided under the Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations affected by AGRN 1212 NSW East Coast Severe Weather from 18 May 2025 have not changed. If the applicant declares that those details have changed, updated evidence must be provided. Service NSW may request further information or evidence where necessary. 7.2 Evidence of Direct Damage Applications under this Program must be supported by evidence of Direct Damage at the time of making the application, which must include: i. 5 to 10 photographs showing the property that sustained Direct Damage, with brief descriptions of what the photos show in the file name or title; ii. a list of the items that have incurred Direct Damage; and iii. Evidence of Payment for the costs of completed work claimed under this Program. NOTE: if the applicant is unable to provide photographs or documentation, Service NSW may accept alternative evidence, subject to its assessment of credibility and relevance. Service NSW may also request further information to assess eligibility. 7.3 Business evidence To demonstrate eligibility as a Small Business or Non-profit Organisation, applicants may be asked to provide, among other things: i. evidence of employee numbers, such as payroll summaries or Single Touch Payroll records confirming the number of full-time equivalent employees; ii. for sole traders, evidence the applicant is deriving at least 50 per cent of their income from the business such as a copy of their income tax return for the last financial year or copies of financial statements or activity statements; iii. in the case of start-up or seasonal businesses, a statutory declaration outlining the business’s operational status and intention to be the applicant’s primary source of income, annexing supporting documents such as investment records, invoices, or equipment purchase receipts. iv. in the case of Non-profit Organisation registered as a company limited by guarantee, a copy of the company constitution stating that the entity is established and operated for a purpose other to generate profit. 7.4 Evidence of receipt of $25,000 under linked grant Eligible applicants will be identified by Service NSW as having received $25,000 from Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations for AGRN 1212. 7.5 Use of previously provided information and evidence Where applicants have already been assessed and approved under the Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations, Service NSW may rely on previously provided evidence, unless further verification, updated information or additional evidence is required. 8 Application and claiming process 8.1 Applications must be submitted via: the applicant’s SNSW Business Profile by an Authorised Person via the MyServiceNSW Account on the Service NSW website or mobile application; or in person at a Service NSW Centre, Mobile Service Centre or any other centre that is authorised to receive applications. Applicants are requested to refer to Service NSW website and complete an online application accompanied by the documentation stated on the application form before the application closing deadline. As noted in Clause 2, funding is limited to one grant application per eligible applicant. Multiple eligible claims adding up to the maximum grant amount of $25,000 can be included in the one application. NOTE: Support in making an application can be provided by contacting Service NSW on 13 77 88, or by visiting a Service NSW Service Centre, Mobile Service Centre or any other centre that is authorised to receive applications. 9 Assessment, approval process and decision makers 9.1 Service NSW will assess applications in the order in which they are lodged. Incomplete applications will not enter the assessment queue until all required information is provided. Applications may be saved and submitted when complete using the ‘save and resume’ function. 9.2 Applicants will receive notification of the outcome. Applications will be assessed and decided by Service NSW against the eligibility criteria in these guidelines. 9.3 Service NSW may request further information from you or from any business or individual you have engaged as necessary to assess an application and to verify any information provided. Failure to comply with such request may lead to an application being refused. 9.4 Service NSW reserves the right to refuse an application where eligibility criteria are not met, or where the applicant does not or cannot provide sufficient information or evidence to determine if the eligibility criteria of these guidelines have been met. 9.5 Applicants must consent to Service NSW conducting an audit of their application and supporting evidence. Applications submitted may be subject to audit activities by Service NSW or its agents, the purpose of which will be to determine compliance with the Program Rules (guidelines and Terms and Conditions). 9.6 Before applying for financial assistance under this Program, applicants should seek advice from their legal, business or financial advisers about the tax implications of this financial assistance. 9.7 Applicants will be expected to provide supporting documentation, such as the latest Local Council Rates Notice, latest available Tax Return and Financial Statement for your Small Business or Non-profit Organisation or other documents as per the Program Rules. 9.8 In exceptional circumstances, consideration may be given to applicants who do not meet the eligibility criteria outlined in Clauses 5 and 6, upon agreement between Service NSW and the NSW Reconstruction Authority. 9.9 The Chief Executive Officer (or delegate), NSW Reconstruction Authority, is the designated decision-maker. The decision-maker is responsible for making determinations regarding grant criteria and policy intent. This includes approving Program policies and processes for assessment, risk management, quality assurance and auditing, and escalation of any compliance issues. On matters requiring the endorsement of the Commonwealth government, NSW Reconstruction Authority will consult with the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). 10 Disputes and complaints 10.1 Applicants are entitled to dispute the assessment outcome of the application by requesting an internal review of the assessment. Disputes can be lodged via the Service NSW website, in person at a Service NSW centre or by contacting Service NSW on 13 77 88 . 10.2 Applicants disputing the assessment outcome of the application are entitled to an internal review of the application. Applications for an internal review must be made within 28 calendar days of being notified of the outcome. Disputes lodged after this time may not be accepted by Service NSW. 10.3 The internal review will be conducted by a separate Service NSW team who will review the application against the eligibility criteria and the Program, including any new evidence that the applicant may provide. 10.4 Applicants may also lodge complaints via the Service NSW website, in person at a Service NSW centre or by contacting Service NSW on 13 77 88 . Service NSW will manage complaints in accordance with the Service NSW Complaints Handling Policy. 11 False and misleading information 11.1 Applicants must declare the information provided in the application is true and correct. Providing inaccurate, untrue or misleading information may be a breach of criminal law for which serious penalties may apply, and the applications may be referred to law enforcement. 11.2 By lodging the claim form, the applicant is declaring that the information provided in the application form and supporting documentation is true and accurate. 11.3 If any information provided in an application or supporting documentation is found to be inaccurate, untrue or misleading, legal action may be taken against the applicant, including action to recover the funds. 12 Important information 12.1 These guidelines are correct at the time of publishing. 12.2 Applicants must retain and provide on request, until one year following the closing of the program, all documentation and evidence related to eligibility and the application requirements outlined in these guidelines. 12.3 The Australian Government, NSW Reconstruction Authority and Service NSW reserve the right to amend, alter or change these guidelines at any time, and it is the responsibility of the applicant to check the relevant website prior to application. All iterations of the public facing grant guidelines and the dates of publication will be available on the Service NSW and the NSW Government Grants and Funding Finder website. 12.4 The guidelines that apply to the application will be the guidelines that are current at the time your application is assessed by Service NSW. 12.5 These guidelines must be read in conjunction with the Program Terms and Conditions By applying to receive a grant, an applicant agrees to be bound by these guidelines and the Terms and Conditions. 12.6 Funds used other than in accordance with these guidelines will be repayable on demand. 12.7 At the time of the recovery grant application under this Program, Non-profit Organisations that are included on the National Redress Scheme’s website list as an ‘Institution that has not joined or signified their intent to join’ will be required to join the scheme prior to recovery grant applications closing, before any grant funding can be received. 13 Definitions 13.1 Terms or expressions starting with a capital letter have the meaning given in this section and include all grammatical forms e.g. “Business” includes “Businesses”, unless the context indicates otherwise. 13.2 Defined Terms ABN means an Australian Business Number issued by the Australian Government to businesses and organisations. ACNC means the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission, being the national regulator of charities registered under the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012 (Cth). Administering Agency means the responsible agency/department/body for assessing and administering the Program. AGRN means Australian Government Reference Number, the unique identifier assigned by the Australian Government to each natural disaster event for tracking and reporting purposes. Authorised Person means a person authorised to apply on behalf of the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation. This may include a director, owner or other relevant person. Direct Damage means physical damage or destruction to property, assets, stock, equipment or infrastructure that is a direct result of the Eligible Disaster, and not attributable to pre-existing conditions, gradual deterioration or indirect or consequential loss. Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements means the joint Commonwealth and State arrangements that provide financial assistance to help communities recover from eligible natural Disaster. Eligible Disaster means the disaster event activated by the State/Territory in accordance with the DRFA under which these grants have been made available. For the purpose of these guidelines, the event is: AGRN 1212 NSW East Coast Severe Weather from 18 May 2025. Eligible Separate Small Business means a separate small business owned by the same small business owner that would be a commercially viable and autonomous business if the other separate businesses operated by the eligible entity ceased to operate. Evidence of Payment means: a tax invoice showing full details of the goods or services provided. The goods and services described on each invoice must be clearly identifiable having been paid by the applicant and being related to damage from the Eligible Disaster; and evidence that the invoice has been paid by the applicant, being a copy of the applicant’s bank transfer(s) and/or bank statement(s), together with any relevant official receipt(s) from suppliers or contractors. Grants Administration Guide means the Grants Administration Guide required by section 10.3A of the Government Sector Finance Act 2018 (NSW), which provides an overview of the grants administration process, overarching principles that apply to all NSW Government grants, and mandatory requirements that must be complied with when administering grants. Impacted Area means the local government areas activated for assistance under the Eligible Disaster including Armidale, Bellingen, Central Coast, Cessnock, Clarence Valley, Coffs Harbour, Dungog, Kempsey, Lake Macquarie, Maitland, Mid-Coast Muswellbrook, Nambucca Valley, Newcastle, Port Macquarie-Hastings, Port Stephens, Singleton, Upper Hunter, Walcha Non-profit Organisation means a non-profit organisation that meets the criteria in clause 5.3. Official Receipt means a receipt including the name and address and ABN (if applicable) of the entity that issued the receipt and a description of each item to which the receipt relates. Policy Owner means the agency responsible for the grant design including overseeing development and approval of the eligibility criteria, assessment and compliance methodologies as well as grant evaluation. Primary Production Enterprise means an enterprise carried on by a primary producer and involves primary production, as defined by the ANZSIC Code for Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing, but excludes activities from the ANZSIC Code that involve animals that are not bred for farm work, food or fibre; hunting and trapping activities; or agriculture, forestry and fishing support services; and is registered for tax purposes in Australia with an Australian Business Number (ABN); and is not a public company under the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). For the purposes of this guideline activities from the ANZSIC Codes that involve animals that are not bred for farm work, food or fibre; hunting and trapping activities; or agriculture, forestry and fishing support services are eligible for this grant and will be funded 100% by New South Wales. Program has the meaning given in clause 1. Public Company has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Reinstatement means the carrying out of activities that are necessary to help the Small Business or Non-profit Organisation to resume usual business activities, as soon as possible, following the Eligible Disaster. Small Business means a business that meets the criteria in clause 5.2 and includes an Eligible Separate Small Business. Terms and Conditions means the terms and conditions applicable to the Program, as published on the Service NSW website. Related links Legal information related to the Recovery Grant for Small Businesses and Non-Profit Organisations – East Coast Severe Weather Event (AGRN 1212): Terms and Conditions Privacy collection notice Back to top Last published: 23 June 2026 An error occurred loading the sharing widget. Load the sharing widget An error occurred loading the footer. Reload the footer