North Coast Storms and Floods: 19 February 2021 Skip to navigation Skip to main content Loading Menu  Menu Home Affairs Portfolio Disaster Assist pop-up content starts  Back Search Popular searches Your previous searches pop-up content ends  North Coast Storms and Floods: 19 February 2021 Quick Info State / Country NSW Australia Name North Coast Storms and Floods: 19 February 2021 Start Date 19/02/2021 End Date AGRN 954 Related Links Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements 2018 ; Lost or damaged passports ; NSW Rural Assistance Authority ; Service NSW /Pages/related-links/disaster-recovery-funding-arrangements-2018.aspx ; https://www.passports.gov.au/passports-explained/how-apply/eligibility-citizenship-and-identity/replacement-passport ; http://www.raa.nsw.gov.au ; https://www.service.nsw.gov.au/ 0 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 North Coast Storms and Floods: 19 February 2021 Page Content ​​​​Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements​ The joint Australian, state and territory governments' Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) provide a range of financial assistance to the natural disaster-declared areas in each state or territory. For the North Coast storms and floods from 19 February 2021 onwards the available assistance measures include: Personal hardship and distress assistance ​​​​Counter disaster operations Restoration of damaged essential public assets Concessional interest rate loans for small businesses, primary producers and non-profit organisations Freight subsidies for primary producers Grants for non-profit organisations​​ For information on available recovery assistance, visit the Resilience NSW and Service NSW websites. For further information on recovery arrangements, visit the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements page. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade will replace passports that have been lost or damaged in declared natural disasters free of charge, visit the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website.​ Recovery grants Recovery grants of up to $75,000 are available for eligible primary producers in the local government areas of Clarence Valley, Coffs Harbour, Kyogle, Lismore, Nambucca, Port Macquarie-Hastings and Richmond Valley. For information on available recovery assistance for primary producers, visit the NSW Rural Assistance Authority website. Recovery Grants of up to $50,000 are available for eligible small business or not-for-profit organisations in the local government areas of Clarence Valley, Coffs Harbour, Kyogle, Lismore, Nambucca, Port Macquarie-Hastings and Richmond Valley. For information on available recovery assistance for small business, visit t​he Service NSW​ website. ​ Australian Government Disaster Recovery Payment The Australian Government Disaster Recovery Payment (AGDRP) provides one-off financial assistance to eligible Australians adversely affected by the storms and floods. The rate of AGDRP is $1000 per eligible adult and $400 per eligible child. Claims for this payment can be lodged with Services Australia for a period up to 6 months. AGDRP is available for people who have been seriously injured, have lost their homes or whose homes have been directly damaged, whose major assets have been directly damaged or are the immediate family members of a person who has died as a direct result of the storms and floods. You have until 15 October 2021 to lodge a claim for AGDRP in the localities of Corindi Beach, Upper Corindi and Red Rock within the Coffs Harbour Local Government Area (LGA). For more information on eligibility, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance.​​ ​New Zealand disaster recovery payment An equivalent payment is being provided to eligible New Zealand 'non-protected' special category visa (SCV) (subclass 444) holders who have been adversely affected by the storms and floods. The payment rate is $1000 per eligible adult, $1000 per partner or dependent adult and $400 per eligible child. Claims for this payment can be lodged with Services Australia for a period of 6 months. The payment is available for SCV holders who have been seriously injured, have lost their homes or whose homes have been directly damaged, whose major assets have been directly damaged or are the immediate family members of a person who has died as a direct result of the storms and floods. You have until 15 October 2021 to lodge a claim for the New Zealand disaster recovery payment in the localities of Corindi Beach, Upper Corindi and Red Rock within the Coffs Harbour LGA. For eligibility information, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance. Disaster Recovery Allowance The Disaster Recovery Allowance (DRA) provides income support payments to employees, primary producers and sole traders who can demonstrate they have experienced a loss of income as a direct result of the storms and floods. DRA provides fortnightly payments for up to 13 weeks up to the applicable rate of JobSeeker Payment or Youth Allowance, depending on the person's circumstances. DRA is available to Australian residents who are 16 years and older. DRA is not available to those already receiving another income support payment or pension such as the Age Pension, JobSeeker Payment or Service Pension. You have until 16 October 2021 to lodge a claim for DRA in the localities of Corindi Beach, Upper Corindi and Red Rock within the Coffs Harbour LGA. ​For eligibility information, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims for assistance. New Zealand income support allowance The New Zealand income support allowance is available to eligible New Zealand 'non-protected' special category visa (SCV) (subclass 444) holders who can demonstrate they have experienced a loss of income as a direct result of the storms and floods. The income support allowance provides fortnightly payments for up to 13 weeks up to the applicable rate of JobSeeker Payment or Youth Allowance, depending on the person's circumstances. The allowance is available to SCV holders who are 16 years and older. You have until 16 October 2021 to lodge a claim for the New Zealand income support allowance in the localities of Corindi Beach, Upper Corindi and Red Rock within the Coffs Harbour LGA. For more information on eligibility, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance.​​ No The above assistance may be available in the following local government area(s) Clarence Valley ; Coffs Harbour ; Kyogle ; Lismore ; Nambucca ; Port Macquarie-Hastings ; Richmond Valley Need a hand? × Cancel Tell us what
                                                you think of this page Last updated: 22/09/2024 19:34 Print this page Home Affairs Portfolio Australian Border Force National Security Transport Security ​ Emergency Management Cyber Security Multicultural Affairs Find a disaster ​ Getting help ​ How to help Disaster arrangements About us Contact us Web privacy statement Accessibility of this website Access to information​ ​ Information publication scheme Copyright and disclaimer Privacy Back to top