Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (QDFG) | Queensland Reconstruction Authority Skip to main content Queensland Reconstruction Authority Main navigation Toggle main menu visibility Home About us Our work Strategic Plan Governance Minister Board Board Reports Chief Executive Officer Annual reports Statewide program Reform Working for us Equity and Diversity Plan Contact us Funding programs Our role in disaster funding Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA) Event specific (exceptional circumstances) assistance Resilience funding Queensland Betterment Funds Get Ready Queensland funding program MARS portal for funding program applications Funding for individuals, not-for-profit organisations and businesses Training about disaster funding Disaster funding activations Activations Our role in disaster funding activations Request a disaster funding activation Map of disaster funding activations FAQs about disaster funding activations Recovery Our role in recovery Recovery governance State Recovery Plans (event-specific) Recovery operations Reconstruction Monitoring Recovery collaboration and contacts Recovery resources for practitioners Recovery information for Queenslanders Recovery monitoring and evaluation Resilience Our role in resilience Queensland Strategy for Disaster Resilience Hazard and risk Regional resilience strategies Sendai Framework commitments Flood risk management Investing in resilience Resilient homes building guidance Resources for resilience practitioners Local Resilience Action Plans (LRAPs) Get Ready Queensland Diversity and inclusion Resilient Australia Awards Repeat Events and Dollars Index application (REDI) Publications & maps Plans, strategies, guides and reports Maps Accessing information DRFA tool box News & case studies News Case studies and key projects Media statements Social media Featured videos QRA e-newsletters MARS login Top menu Site map Contact us Help Breadcrumb Home Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (QDFG) Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (QDFG) On this page: About the QDFG The QDFG recovery arrangements include: Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA) The QDFG provides detailed information on activation, eligibility, application, delivery, reporting, and acquittal requirements for disaster funding relief measures. The QDFG is designed to assist individuals, small businesses, primary producers, not-for-profit organisations, local governments, and state agencies in accessing financial assistance following an eligible disaster. The updated Version 4 QDFG June 2026 , replaces Version 3 and is effective from 1 July 2026 onwards . QDFG Section 2.1.1 provides a summary of updates by section and application. QDFG Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (V4 June 2026) QRA Reference DOC/26/7166. Last updated 16/09/2026.

            2 MB DRFA media and public acknowledgement requirements Recipients of Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) assistance must adhere to the DRFA media and public acknowledgement requirements (set under section 5.2 of the Commonwealth’s DRFA Guidelines). All DRFA-related media releases, media responses, planned events, social media, public notices or signage must be approved by QRA, which will also facilitate further State and Commonwealth government approvals where required. For more details please visit: DRFA media and public acknowledgement requirements DRFA and SDRA  Information Sheet The Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements and State Disaster Relief Arrangements Information Sheet provides an overview of DRFA and SDRA delivery in Queensland. DRFA and SDRA  Information Sheet Prior guideline versions Prior guideline version 3: QDFG December 2024 The QDFG December 2024 (version 3) outline Queensland's two disaster relief and recovery arrangements: the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) and the State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA) and applied to events that occurred from 1 December 2024 to 30 June 2026, unless otherwise stated in the Guideline. Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (Version 3 December 2024) (QRA File Reference CM DOC/23/77361 - last updated December 2024).

            1 MB Prior guideline version 2: QDFG July 2021 The QDFG July 2021 (version 2) outline Queensland's two disaster relief and recovery arrangements: the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) and the State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA) and applied to events that occurred from 1 July 2021 to November 2024, unless otherwise stated in the Guideline. Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (PDF)(June 2021) The QDFG July 2021 outline Queensland's two disaster relief and recovery arrangements: the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) and the State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA) and applied to events that occurred between 1 July 2021 to November 2024.

            3 MB Prior guideline version 1: Queensland Disaster Relief and Recovery Guidelines (QDRR) (November 2018) The QDRR guidelines November 2018 (version 1) outline Queensland's two disaster relief and recovery arrangements: the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) and the State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA), and applied to events that occurred between 1 November 2018 to 30 June 2021 inclusive. Queensland Disaster Relief and Recovery Guidelines (September 2019) Queensland Disaster Relief and Recovery Guidelines (September 2019)

            2 MB (QRA File Reference MINIGF/26/2724). Last updated: 20 July 2026. Last reviewed 20 July 2026. Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) Toggle main menu visibility About DRFA and eligible disasters Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (QDFG) DRFA categories DRFA and SDRA Information Sheet (PDF printable) Applying for DRFA funding Local Government trigger points DRFA tool box Treatment Guide Learn about MARS Funding for individuals, communities and business Can't find what you need? We're here to help. What are you looking for? Get in touch Contact us Join our online communities https://www.facebook.com/QueenslandReconstructionAuthority/ https://au.linkedin.com/company/queensland-reconstruction-authority Youtube Twitter Footer menu Help Copyright Privacy statement Right to information Accessibility Jobs in Queensland Government Other languages © The State of Queensland (Queensland Reconstruction Authority) 2011-2026. Queensland Government