Northern and Central Queensland monsoon and flooding: 20 December 2022 - 30 April 2023 Skip to navigation Skip to main content Loading Menu  Menu Home Affairs Portfolio Disaster Assist pop-up content starts  Back Search Popular searches Your previous searches pop-up content ends  Northern and Central Queensland monsoon and flooding: 20 December 2022 - 30 April 2023 Quick Info State / Country QLD Name Northern and Central Queensland monsoon and flooding: 20 December 2022 - 30 April 2023 Start Date 20/12/2022 End Date 30/04/2023 AGRN 1,046 Related Links Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements 2018 ; Lost or damaged passports ; Queensland Reconstruction Authority ; Business Queensland (Queensland Government) ; Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) ; Services Australia (Natural disasters) /Pages/related-links/disaster-recovery-funding-arrangements-2018.aspx ; https://www.passports.gov.au/passports-explained/how-apply/eligibility-citizenship-and-identity/replacement-passport ; https://www.qra.qld.gov.au/ ; https://www.business.qld.gov.au/industries/farms-fishing-forestry/agriculture/disaster ; https://www.qrida.qld.gov.au/ ; https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/natural-disaster 0 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 Northern and Central Queensland monsoon and flooding: 20 December 2022 - 30 April 2023 Page Content ​​​​​​​Australian Government Disaster Recovery Payment The Australian Government Disaster Recovery Payment (AGDRP) provides one-off financial assistance to eligible Australians adversely affected by the floods in northern and central Queensland. The rate of AGDRP is $1000 per eligible adult and $400 per eligible child. Claims for this payment can be lodged with Services Australia for a period up to 6 months. AGDRP is available for people who have been seriously injured, have lost their homes or whose homes have been directly damaged, whose major assets have been directly damaged or are the immediate family members of an Australian citizen or resident who has died as a direct result of the floods. You have until 15 September 2023 to lodge a claim for AGDRP in the three (3) local government areas of: Boulia, Burke, and Mount Isa. For more information on eligibility, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance. New Zealand Disaster Recovery Payment The New Zealand Disaster Recovery Payment (NZ DRP) is available to eligible New Zealand 'non-protected' Special Category visa (SCV) (subclass 444) holders who have been adversely affected by the floods in Queensland. The payment rate is $1000 per eligible adult, and $400 per eligible child. Claims for this payment can be lodged with Services Australia for a period of 6 months. The payment is available for non-protected SCV holders who have been seriously injured, have lost their homes or whose homes have been directly damaged, whose major assets have been directly damaged or are the immediate family members of an Australian citizen or resident who has died as a direct result of the floods. You have until 15 September 2023 to lodge a claim for the New Zealand disaster recovery payment in the three (3) local government areas of: Boulia, Burke, and Mount Isa. For eligibility information, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance. Disaster Recovery Allowance The Disaster Recovery Allowance (DRA) is a short term payment to eligible Australians who can demonstrate they have experienced a loss of income as a direct result of the floods in Queensland. DRA provides fortnightly payments for up to 13 weeks up to the applicable rate of JobSeeker Payment or Youth Allowance, depending on the person's circumstances. DRA is available to Australian residents who are 16 years and older. DRA is not available to those already receiving another income support payment or pension such as the Age Pension, JobSeeker Payment or Service Pension. You have until 15 September 2023 to lodge a claim for DRA in the seven (7) local government areas of: Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington, and Mount Isa. For eligibility information, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims for assistance. New Zealand Disaster Recovery Allowance The New Zealand Disaster Recovery Allowance (NZ DRA) is available to eligible New Zealand 'non-protected' special category visa (SCV) (subclass 444) holders who can demonstrate they have experienced a loss of income as a direct result of the floods in Queensland. The short term payment provides fortnightly payments for up to 13 weeks up to the applicable rate of JobSeeker Payment or Youth Allowance, depending on the person's circumstances. NZ DRA is available to SCV holders who are 16 years and older. You have until 15 September 2023 to lodge a claim for the New Zealand disaster recovery allowance in the seven (7) local government areas of: Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington and Mount Isa. For more information on eligibility, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance. Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements The joint Australian, state and territory governments' Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) provide a range of financial assistance to the natural disaster-declared areas in each state or territory. For Northern and Central Queensland monsoon and flooding, the following assistance measures are available. The Personal Hardship Assistance Scheme and Essential Services Safety and Reconnection Scheme in the four (4) local government areas of: Boulia Burke Doomadgee Certain parts of Mount Isa (Camooweal) For information on these schemes and eligibility, visit the Queensland Government Community Recovery website or phone the Community Recovery hotline on 1800 173 349. Disaster Assistance Loans and Essential Working Capital Loans for primary producers in the seven (7) local government areas of: Boulia Burke Carpentaria Cloncurry Doomadgee Mornington Mount Isa Disaster Assistance Loans for small businesses and not-for-profit organisations in the seven (7) local government areas of: Boulia Burke Carpentaria Cloncurry Doomadgee Mornington Mount Isa For information on small business, not-for-profit organisation and primary producer loans including eligibility, visit the Business Queensland natural disaster assistance website. Freight Subsidies for primary producers in seven (7) local government areas of: Boulia Burke Carpentaria Cloncurry Doomadgee Mornington Mount Isa For information on freight subsidies, eligibility and how to apply visit the Business Queensland Freight Subsidies website. Counter disaster operations in the thirty-eight (38) local government areas of: Aurukun Barcaldine Blackall-Tambo Boulia Burdekin Burke Cairns Carpentaria Cassowary Coast Charters Towers Cloncurry Cook Croydon Diamantina Doomadgee Douglas Etheridge Flinders Hope Vale Isaac Kowanyama Lockhart River Longreach Mackay Mapoon Mareeba McKinlay Mornington Mount Isa Northern Peninsula Area Palm Island Pormpuraaw Tablelands Torres Townsville Whitsunday Wujal Wujal Yarrabah Restoration of damaged essential public assets in the forty-five (45) local government areas of: Aurukun Barcaldine Barcoo Blackall-Tambo Boulia Burdekin Burke Cairns Carpentaria Cassowary Coast Central Highlands Charters Towers Cook Cloncurry Croydon Diamantina Doomadgee Douglas Etheridge Flinders Hope Vale Isaac Kowanyama Livingstone Lockhart River Longreach Mackay Mapoon Mareeba McKinlay Mornington Mount Isa Napranum Northern Peninsula Palm Island Pormpuraaw Richmond Tablelands Torres Torres Strait Island Townsville Whitsunday Winton Wujal Wujal Yarrabah Additional recovery assistance measures Recovery grants of up to $75,000 are available for eligible primary producers to help with recovery and reinstatement activities - These grants are available in the seven (7) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington and Mount Isa. Recovery grants of up to $50,000 are available for eligible small businesses to help with recovery and reinstatement activities - These grants are available in the seven (7) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington and Mount Isa. Recovery grants of up to $50,000 are available for eligible not-for-profit organisations to help with recovery and reinstatement activities - These grants are available in the seven (7) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington and Mount Isa. For information on recovery grants for primary producers, small businesses and not-for-profit organisations visit the Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority website. Additional recovery packages Coordinated livestock support and disposal package - This package is available in seven (7) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington and Mount Isa to assist primary producers and local and state government organisations with the extraordinary costs of undertaking livestock welfare activities. Community and Mental Health package – This package is available in five (5) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Doomadgee and Mount Isa to assist individuals, families and business owners who may be experiencing psychological distress. Local Recovery and Resilience Grants - This grant is available to the four (4) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria and Doomadgee to assist local governments undertake immediate recovery and resilience activities, to address emerging needs and help build community resilience. Community Recovery and Resilience Officers - This package is available in the three (3) local government areas of Burke, Carpentaria and Doomadgee to support communities with recovery and resilience. Tourism Recovery and Resilience Program - This package is available in the six (6) local government areas of Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington, and Mount Isa, to assist local and state governments undertake relief, and resilience activities in areas to promote tourism recovery. Livestock and Grazing Land Initiative - This package is available in the seven (7) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington, and Mount Isa to support primary producers with animal welfare and land management advice. Environmental Recovery Package - This package is available in the seven (7) local government areas of Boulia, Burke, Carpentaria, Cloncurry, Doomadgee, Mornington, and Mount Isa to support local and state governments with environmental and cultural recovery. Betterment Program - This package is available in forty-five (45) local government areas, to assist local and state governments to improve the resilience of event damaged essential public assets. For further information on available recovery assistance, visit the Queensland Reconstruction Authority website. For further information on recovery arrangements, visit the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements page. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade will replace passports that have been lost or damaged in declared natural disasters free of charge, visit the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website. ​ Yes The above assistance may be available in the following local government area(s) Boulia ; Carpentaria ; Cook ; Croydon ; Etheridge ; Kowanyama ; Mornington ; Northern Peninsula Area ; Pormpuraaw ; Barcaldine ; Diamantina ; Mapoon ; Napranum ; Palm Island ; Barcoo ; Burdekin ; Mackay ; Whitsunday ; Winton ; Burke ; Doomadgee ; Lockhart River ; Mareeba ; Mount Isa ; Townsville ; Longreach ; Aurukun ; Blackall Tambo ; Cassowary Coast ; Cloncurry ; Douglas ; Flinders ; Tablelands ; Central Highlands ; Hope Vale ; Livingstone ; Mckinlay ; Richmond ; Torres ; Cairns ; Yarrabah ; Isaac ; Wujal Wujal ; Charters Towers ; Torres Strait Islands Need a hand? × Cancel Tell us what
                                                you think of this page Last updated: 22/09/2024 19:36 Print this page Home Affairs Portfolio Australian Border Force National Security Transport Security ​ Emergency Management Cyber Security Multicultural Affairs Find a disaster ​ Getting help ​ How to help Disaster arrangements About us Contact us Web privacy statement Accessibility of this website Access to information​ ​ Information publication scheme Copyright and disclaimer Privacy Back to top