DRFA categories | Queensland Reconstruction Authority Skip to main content Queensland Reconstruction Authority Main navigation Toggle main menu visibility Home About us Our work Strategic Plan Governance Minister Board Board Reports Chief Executive Officer Annual reports Statewide program Reform Working for us Equity and Diversity Plan Contact us Funding programs Our role in disaster funding Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA) Event specific (exceptional circumstances) assistance Resilience funding Queensland Betterment Funds Get Ready Queensland funding program MARS portal for funding program applications Funding for individuals, not-for-profit organisations and businesses Training about disaster funding Disaster funding activations Activations Our role in disaster funding activations Request a disaster funding activation Map of disaster funding activations FAQs about disaster funding activations Recovery Our role in recovery Recovery governance State Recovery Plans (event-specific) Recovery operations Reconstruction Monitoring Recovery collaboration and contacts Recovery resources for practitioners Recovery information for Queenslanders Recovery monitoring and evaluation Resilience Our role in resilience Queensland Strategy for Disaster Resilience Hazard and risk Regional resilience strategies Sendai Framework commitments Flood risk management Investing in resilience Resilient homes building guidance Resources for resilience practitioners Local Resilience Action Plans (LRAPs) Get Ready Queensland Diversity and inclusion Resilient Australia Awards Repeat Events and Dollars Index application (REDI) Publications & maps Plans, strategies, guides and reports Maps Accessing information DRFA tool box News & case studies News Case studies and key projects Media statements Social media Featured videos QRA e-newsletters MARS login Top menu Site map Contact us Help Breadcrumb Home Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) DRFA categories DRFA categories On this page: About DRFA categories The Australian/state government jointly funded DRFA is administered at the Commonwealth level by the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). Under the DRFA, four categories of assistance measures are available for activation under an eligible disaster, Categories A and B provide standard assistance and Categories C and D provide additional relief in exceptional circumstances. In Queensland, QRA administers the DRFA assistance measures on behalf of the Queensland Government. Each of the Categories are activated separately (refer Section 4 Activation process for DRFA). CATEGORY A DRFA Category A is assistance to individuals to alleviate personal hardship or distress arising as a direct result of a disaster. This can include: Counter Disaster Operations Emergency Hardship Assistance Essential Services Hardship Assistance Essential Household Contents Grant Structural Assistance Grant. Counter Disaster Operations (Category A) About Counter Disaster Operations (Category A) is for reimbursement of extraordinary costs associated with eligible activities to alleviate personal hardship and distress. Activation DRFA activation can be requested by any state agency or local government by submitting an Activation Request form to QRA via the MARS portal detailing the disaster situation and requesting activation of this relief measure. Note: local governments do not have a trigger point for this relief measure. Learn how to apply including steps and key dates . Administering agency Queensland Reconstruction Authority Personal Hardship Assistance Scheme (Category A) About Personal Hardship Assistance Scheme (Category A) is for one-off payments to alleviate personal hardship and distress: Emergency Hardship Assistance – a grant to address the immediate needs (e.g. food, clothing, emergency accommodation or medical supplies) of individuals and families who are unable to support/fund their own relief and recovery. Essential Services Hardship Assistance – a grant to individuals or families who are suffering hardship due to loss of essential services for more than five days and are unable to support/fund their own relief and recovery. Essential Household Contents Grant – a financial contribution towards the repair or replacement of uninsured essential household contents (income tested). Structural Assistance Grant – a financial contribution towards the repair of damage to an uninsured dwelling (including caravans and residential vessels) to return it to a safe, habitable and secure condition (income tested). If DFSDSCS identifies that local service providers have reached their capacity to provide a service to people experiencing personal hardship as a direct result of a disaster event, or that there are no local service providers to assist, DFSDSCS will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact DFSDSCS directly. Activation DRFA activation requested and administered by the Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Administering agency Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) CATEGORY B DRFA Category B is for assistance for restoration of essential public assets, certain counter-disaster operations, small businesses, primary producers, not-for-profit organisations and individuals through concessional loans, subsidies or grants. Counter Disaster Operations (Category B) About Reimbursement of extraordinary costs associated with eligible activities aimed at protecting the general public and ensuring public health and safety in public areas (e.g. the community as a whole will benefit from the activity being undertaken). Note: local governments do not have a trigger point for this relief measure. Activation DRFA activation can be requested by any state agency or local government by submitting an Activation Request form to QRA via the MARS portal detailing the disaster situation and requesting activation of this relief measure. Learn how to apply including steps and key dates . Administering agency Queensland Reconstruction Authority Essential Services Safety and Reconnection Scheme (Category B) About To assist homeowners to inspect and/or repair damaged essential services (electricity, gas, water, sewerage/septic systems) that are uninsured (income tested). If DFSDSCS identifies that local service providers have reached their capacity to provide a service to people experiencing personal hardship as a direct result of a disaster event, or that there are no local service providers to assist, DFSDSCS will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact DFSDSCS directly. Activation Requested by the Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Administering agency Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Reconstruction of Essential Public Assets (including Emergency Works and Immediate Reconstruction Works) (Category B) About Reconstruction to pre‑disaster function of eligible, uninsured, essential public assets damaged as a direct result of an eligible disaster. Note: local governments must have eligible expenditure exceeding their trigger points to be able to submit for reimbursement. Activation Requested by any state agency or local government by submitting an Activation Request form to QRA via the MARS portal detailing the disaster situation and estimated expenditure. Learn how to apply including steps and key dates . Administering agency Queensland Reconstruction Authority Disaster Assistance Loans – Small Business (Category B) About Concessional loans up to $250,000 to small business operators to repair or replace damaged buildings, plant and equipment, or stock. CDSB will provide regional support to source information from state agencies and local governments, industry bodies, small businesses and ‘on the ground’ observations from staff visiting affected area. If CDSB identifies a need for the activation of this relief measure, CDSB will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact CDSB directly. Activation DRFA activation requested by the Department of Customer Services, Open Data and Small and Family Business (CDSB). Administering agency Department of Customer Services, Open Data and Small and Family Business (CDSB) via Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA). Disaster Assistance Loans – Primary Producer (Category B) About Concessional loans up to $250,000 to primary producers to repair or replace damaged buildings, plant and equipment or livestock. DPI regional officers source information from state agencies and local governments, industry bodies, primary producers and ‘on the ground’ observations from staff visiting affected area. If DPI identifies a need for the activation of this relief measure, DPI will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact DPI directly. Activation Requested by Department of Primary Industries (DPI) Administering agency Department of Primary Industries (DPI) via Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) Disaster Assistance Loans – Not-for-profit (Category B) About Concessional loans up to $100,000 to not‑for‑profit organisations to repair or replace damaged plant and equipment, and/or repair essential premises. DFSDSCS regional officers source information from state agencies and local governments, industry bodies, non‑government organisations and ‘on the ground’ observations from staff visiting affected area. If DFSDSCS identifies a need for the activation of this relief measure, DFSDSCS will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact DFSDSCS directly. Activation Requested by Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Administering agency Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) via Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) Essential Working Capital Loans – Small Business (Category B) About Concessional loans up to $100,000 to small businesses that have suffered a significant loss of income for essential working capital required to continue business operations. CDSB will provide regional support to source information from state government agencies and local governments, industry bodies, small businesses and ‘on the ground’ observations from staff visiting affected area. If CDSB identifies a need for the activation of this relief measure, CDSB will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact CDSB directly. Activation Requested by Department of Customer Services, Open Data and Small and Family Business (CDSB) Administering agency Delivered by Department of Customer Services, Open Data and Small and Family Business (CDSB) via Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) Essential Working Capital Loans – Primary Producer (Category B) About Concessional loans up to $100,000 to primary producers that have suffered a significant loss of income for essential working capital required to continue operations. DPI regional officers source information from state agencies and local governments, industry bodies, primary producers and ‘on the ground’ observations from staff. If DPI identifies a need for the activation of this relief measure, DPI will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact DPI directly Activation Requested by Department of Primary Industries (DPI) Administering agency Delivered by Department of Primary Industries (DPI) via Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) Essential Working Capital Loans – Not-for-profit (Category B) About Concessional loans up to $100,000 to not‑for‑profit organisations that have suffered a significant loss of income for essential working capital required to continue operations. DFSDSCS regional officers source information from state government agencies and local governments, industry bodies, non‑government organisations and ‘on the ground’ observations from staff. If DFSDSCS identifies a need for the activation of this relief measure, DFSDSCS will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact DFSDSCS directly. Activation Requested by Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Administering agency Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) via Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) Freight Subsidies for Primary Producers (Category B) About Assistance up to $5,000 for movement of stock, feed, machinery, fuel, water and building/fencing materials. DPI regional officers source information from state agencies and local governments, industry bodies, primary producers and ‘on the ground’ observations from staff. If DPI identifies a need for the activation of this relief measure, DPI will contact QRA to request activation. If local government identifies a need for activation, they are to contact DPI directly Activation Requested by Department of Primary Industries (DPI) Administering agency Department of Primary Industries (DPI) CATEGORY C Category C relief measures may be made available where the community is severely affected by an eligible disaster and existing standard DRFA relief measures are insufficient to support community recovery. Category C is only available in exceptional circumstances and includes clean-up and recovery grants for small business and primary producers and/or the establishment of a Community Recovery Fund following a severe event. Approval is by the Prime Minister and the Premier. Community Recovery Fund (Category C) About Aimed at community recovery, community development and community capacity building for the future. DFSDSCS will collate and review impact information, and if required, a request will be forwarded to QRA for review, then on‑forwarded to the DPC. If endorsed by the Premier, it will be forwarded to the Commonwealth for approval by the Prime Minister. Activation Requested by Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Administering agency Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Special Disaster Assistance Recovery Grants (Category C) About Up to $25,000 may be made available for small businesses, primary producers and not‑for‑profit organisations that have suffered direct impact from the eligible disaster. Grants can be used for clean‑up and reinstatement, but not for providing compensation for losses (i.e. loss of income/trade). The requesting agency will source information from state agencies and local governments, industry bodies, Chambers of Commerce, primary producers, small businesses and on the ground observations from staff visiting the affected areas for each sector. The requesting agency will then review the information collected, and if it meets the requirements as set by the Commonwealth, a request will be forwarded to QRA for review, then on‑forwarded to DPC. If endorsed by the Premier, it will be forwarded to the Commonwealth for approval by the Prime Minister Activation Requested by: Not-for-profit organisations – Department of Families, Seniors, Disability Services and Child Safety (DFSDSCS) Small business – Department of Customer Services, Open Data and Small and Family Business (CDSB). Primary producers – Department of Primary Industries. (DPI). Administering agency Queensland Rural and Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) Community Relief Fund (Category C) About The Community Relief Fund is intended to provide immediate payments to councils to support the delivery of essential immediate recovery activities, including clean-up activities to restore the function of the community that are not included under Categories A and B, insurance or other state-based funding sources. Delivery Queensland Reconstruction Authority Administering agency Queensland Reconstruction Authority CATEGORY D DRFA Category D is for exceptional circumstances assistance beyond Categories A, B, and C. Category D is generally considered once the impact of the disaster has been assessed and specific recovery gaps identified. Approval is by the Prime Minister and the Premier. Exceptional circumstances assistance ( Category D) About Category D relief measures may be made available when the community is so severely affected by an eligible disaster that: additional funding is required to meet the particular circumstances of the event; and where a gap or need for special assistance arises that is above and beyond the standard suite (Category A and B) of the DRFA assistance. Approval is by the Prime Minister and the Premier. Activation If local governments identify a need for a Category D Extraordinary Special Assistance relief measure, they are encouraged to progress their request through their local disaster management group/district disaster management group to inform the State Function Recovery and Request Group, or relevant state agency, of their recovery needs. The requesting agency will then review the information collected, and if it meets the requirements as set by the Commonwealth, a request will be forwarded to QRA for review, then on‑forwarded to DPC. If endorsed by the Premier, it will be forwarded to the Commonwealth for approval by the Prime Minister. Administering agency Dependent upon the type of assistance made available JOINT FUNDING - Australian Government – State funding of DRFA For simplicity, the publicly acknowledged DRFA funding split is: Categories A and B – up to 75% Commonwealth and 25% State Category C – 50% Commonwealth and 50% State funding Category D – funding split is agreed to when the measure is approved. Additional funding outside the DRFA & SDRA Additional funding outside the DRFA & State Disaster Relief Arrangements (SDRA) could be made available by the Commonwealth to assist communities to recover, such as the Australian Government Disaster Recovery Payment (AGDRP) and the Australian Government Disaster Recovery Allowance (AGDRA). Information on funding available from the Commonwealth is located at www.disasterassist.gov.au . Print version PDF - DRFA and SDRA fact sheet DRFA and SDRA Information Sheet (PDF printable) Last reviewed: 15 July 2025. Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) Toggle main menu visibility About DRFA and eligible disasters Queensland Disaster Funding Guidelines (QDFG) DRFA categories DRFA and SDRA Information Sheet (PDF printable) Applying for DRFA funding Local Government trigger points DRFA tool box Treatment Guide Learn about MARS Funding for individuals, communities and business Can't find what you need? We're here to help. What are you looking for? Get in touch Contact us Join our online communities https://www.facebook.com/QueenslandReconstructionAuthority/ https://au.linkedin.com/company/queensland-reconstruction-authority Youtube Twitter Footer menu Help Copyright Privacy statement Right to information Accessibility Jobs in Queensland Government Other languages © The State of Queensland (Queensland Reconstruction Authority) 2011-2026. Queensland Government