Small and Family Business | Storm recovery grants available Skip navigation Toggle High Contrast Mode Accessibility Options About us News Events Contact About About us News Events Contact Languages English tiếng Việt 繁体中文 简体中文 Italiano हिन्दी Español ខេមរភាសា More language options Discover more accessibility and language options for viewing this website. More options More Sites Skilled + Business Migration Providing pathways to living, working or establishing in South Australia. migration.sa.gov.au SA Science Excellence + Innovation Awards Celebrating the importance of science, research and innovation in 2023. scienceawards.sa.gov.au Supporting Whyalla's Future Supporting businesses through Whyalla's industrial transformation. whyallasupport.sa.gov.au Department of State Development Supporting SA's businesses and industries to succeed at a local, national and global scale. statedevelopment.sa.gov.au Brand SA Celebrating South Australia and supporting all that's local. brand.sa.gov.au Accessibility Business information Get the latest information to help you get on with business. Starting my business Before you start Ways to start Business registration Business planning Business premises Running my business Employing staff Responding to a changing climate Emergency Preparedness and Recovery Managing business finances Preparing your marketing plan Mental health and wellbeing Exit and succession planning Growing my business How do I grow? Research and development Innovation Exports and Imports Future industries Winning work with Government Employing staff Employment resources Human resources Financial support Mentally healthy workplaces Hiring employees People and culture Work Health & Safety (WHS) Digital Capability Cyber security Technology Digital economy eCommerce Programs and funding Find the latest programs, grants and initiatives for small businesses in South Australia. Small Business Week Build capability, expand your network, and access practical tools to help your business thrive. Algal Bloom Support Package Support for business and industry impacted by the Algal Bloom event in South Australia. AI Capability Pilot Program Helping South Australian businesses harness the power of AI. Growth Accelerator Program Support for businesses with high growth potential to scale, build resilience and expand into new markets. Powering Business Grants Invest in energy-efficient upgrades for your business with a Powering Business Grant. Whyalla Business Support Package Support for businesses and workers impacted by the Whyalla Steelworks challenges. Women in Business Program A program designed to support women in starting, running and growing their businesses. Small Business Fundamentals Program Tailored support to help you build your business know-how. Sustainability Support Program Develop strategies to improve your environmental sustainability, and build skills and capability to implement new practices. Mental Health and Wellbeing Program Support for business owners and their employees to build resilience and cope with mental health challenges. Energy Bill Relief Learn more about accessing relief for your business' electricity bills. Drought support If you’re a small and family business owner in a drought-affected region, support is available to help you manage the impacts of drought. Sources of funding When you’re setting up a business or investing in new growth opportunities, you may need funds. Support services Discover a range of services designed to help you get on with business. Business Support Officers Get support to run, start or grow your business through a dedicated Small Business Support Officer servicing your region. Support service listing Get support support and advice from range of national, South Australian and local government services. Small Business Commission SA The Small Business Commission SA provides fast, fair, and low-cost dispute resolution for South Australian small businesses. Regional support Connect with a range of organisations and programs that support businesses and workers in South Australia's regions. Coaching and mentoring Find how you can connect with coaches and mentors to help you and your business. Emergency Preparedness and Recovery We have compiled tools, resources and plans to assist you plan ahead should you need to respond to an emergency or a natural disaster. Resource Centre Access a suite of resources to help you get on with business. Sources of funding Uncover different sources of funding to help you get on with business. Tools and downloads Access a suite of resources designed to help you operate and grow your business. Latest news Get all the latest news for small businesses in South Australia. Events calendar Discover all upcoming events for small and family businesses across South Australia. Small Business Stories Business information Business information Get the latest information to help you get on with business. Starting my business Before you start Ways to start Business registration Business planning Business premises Running my business Employing staff Responding to a changing climate Emergency Preparedness and Recovery Managing business finances Preparing your marketing plan Mental health and wellbeing Exit and succession planning Growing my business How do I grow? Research and development Innovation Exports and Imports Future industries Winning work with Government Employing staff Employment resources Human resources Financial support Mentally healthy workplaces Hiring employees People and culture Work Health & Safety (WHS) Digital Capability Cyber security Technology Digital economy eCommerce Programs and funding Programs and funding Find the latest programs, grants and initiatives for small businesses in South Australia. Small Business Week Build capability, expand your network, and access practical tools to help your business thrive. Algal Bloom Support Package Support for business and industry impacted by the Algal Bloom event in South Australia. AI Capability Pilot Program Helping South Australian businesses harness the power of AI. Growth Accelerator Program Support for businesses with high growth potential to scale, build resilience and expand into new markets. Powering Business Grants Invest in energy-efficient upgrades for your business with a Powering Business Grant. Whyalla Business Support Package Support for businesses and workers impacted by the Whyalla Steelworks challenges. Women in Business Program A program designed to support women in starting, running and growing their businesses. Small Business Fundamentals Program Tailored support to help you build your business know-how. Sustainability Support Program Develop strategies to improve your environmental sustainability, and build skills and capability to implement new practices. Mental Health and Wellbeing Program Support for business owners and their employees to build resilience and cope with mental health challenges. Energy Bill Relief Learn more about accessing relief for your business' electricity bills. Drought support If you’re a small and family business owner in a drought-affected region, support is available to help you manage the impacts of drought. Sources of funding When you’re setting up a business or investing in new growth opportunities, you may need funds. Support services Support services Discover a range of services designed to help you get on with business. Business Support Officers Get support to run, start or grow your business through a dedicated Small Business Support Officer servicing your region. Support service listing Get support support and advice from range of national, South Australian and local government services. Small Business Commission SA The Small Business Commission SA provides fast, fair, and low-cost dispute resolution for South Australian small businesses. Regional support Connect with a range of organisations and programs that support businesses and workers in South Australia's regions. Coaching and mentoring Find how you can connect with coaches and mentors to help you and your business. Emergency Preparedness and Recovery We have compiled tools, resources and plans to assist you plan ahead should you need to respond to an emergency or a natural disaster. Resource Centre Resource Centre Access a suite of resources to help you get on with business. Sources of funding Uncover different sources of funding to help you get on with business. Tools and downloads Access a suite of resources designed to help you operate and grow your business. Latest news Get all the latest news for small businesses in South Australia. Events calendar Discover all upcoming events for small and family businesses across South Australia. Small Business Stories About About About us News Events Contact Languages Languages English tiếng Việt 繁体中文 简体中文 Italiano हिन्दी Español ខេមរភាសា More language options Discover more accessibility and language options for viewing this website. More options More Sites More Sites Skilled + Business Migration SA Science Excellence + Innovation Awards Supporting Whyalla's Future Department of State Development Brand SA This Government of South Australia website is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence . © 2026 Department of State Development Privacy , Terms, conditions & accessibility Open main menu Storm recovery grants available Home » Latest News » Storm recovery grants available 6th Dec 2021 View All Announcements Small and Family Business Business Funding & Grants Storm recovery grants available Disaster recovery grants of up to $10,000 are available to eligible South Australian primary producers who suffered direct storm damage in the 2021 October and November storms. Grants are to help pay for the costs of clean-up and other emergency measures including rebuilding or replacing damaged or destroyed on-farm infrastructure, to assist the immediate recovery of primary production enterprises. The maximum grant available for clean-up and reinstatement activities is $10,000 per primary production business. You must have an ABN to apply. Applications close 28 February 2022. For full information, and the online application form, visit Pirsa.sa.gov.au/storms Find out more Related Articles 13th Jul SA businesses invited to connect with global talent in 2027 Read More 13th May Registrations open for Connect, Learn and Network Read More 22nd Apr Calling all South Australian businesses and exporters Read More 12th Nov Financial support for businesses affected by the algal bloom Read More Announcements and practical advice straight to your mailbox. Name First Name * Last Name Email * Please enter a personal email address. Generic addresses beginning with ‘info@’ or ‘admin@’ may be blocked from our email distribution system. All information is collected and used in accordance with the DSD Privacy Statement . Sign me up Popular links Doing Business in SA Growing my business Tools and downloads Employing staff All News Accessibility Are you experiencing difficulty accessing content on this website? Launch our accessibility toolbar for assistance. Accessibility toolbar Contact us Contact Follow us Facebook LinkedIn This Government of South Australia website is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence . © 2026 Department of State Development Privacy , Terms, conditions & accessibility