Tasmania Bushfires December 2025 - TasALERT Skip to content Get Ready Alerts Recovery Recovery In an emergency call 000 Open main menu Incidents Fuel Supply Facts Read More Tasmania’s fuel supply is secure. We’re working with fuel suppliers, industry and others to monitor the situation. 04/12/2025 Tasmania Bushfires December 2025 In December 2025 multiple fires started across the southern and eastern coasts of Tasmania. If you have been impacted by these events, the following general information may help you and your community. For additional information specific to impacted areas, click the buttons below: Dolphin Sands Bushfire St Helens & Surrounds Bushfire Recovering after a bushfire Safety Advice: Returning home after a bushfire Your safety as you return to your property is critical. There are lots of things to consider when returning to your property following a bushfire. Please take time to assess any damage, wear protective clothing, and avoid touching or disturbing anything that appears unsafe. Advice from Public Health includes: Protect yourself before entering your property, by wearing long-sleeve clothing, a P2 or N95 mask, sturdy boots and gloves Try not to disturb the dust and ash Do not walk on or drive over a septic tank Be aware of contaminated water tanks Using fuel-burning equipment inside or in poorly ventilated areas can cause carbon monoxide poisoning Smoke may still be present in your area, so try to limit exposure Throw out perishable food. For more information on safely returning to your property: Download this factsheet: Returning Home after a Bushfire Visit this website: Returning Home After a Bushfire | Tasmanian Department of Health Contact Public Health Services: Call: 1800 671 738 Email: public.health@health.tas.gov.au Your Mental Health and Wellbeing Natural disasters such as bushfire, can be traumatic. It’s important to look after your mental health and seek support if you need it. Overwhelming events can affect everyone in the community, causing disruption and damage to businesses, farmers, properties, infrastructure and the environment. The Australian Red Cross has resources about how to support each other in the community during and after a crisis. If you are struggling, support is available. Please see the attached fact sheet for more a services directory and more information on support available. Health and Wellbeing after a Bushfire Visit the TasRECOVERY page on Health and Wellbeing Emergency Assistance Grants (closed) Emergency Assistance Grants are now available to residents impacted by the Southern Tasmania Bushfires and the St Helens and Surrounds Bushfires. This includes fire displaced residents of: Glenlusk Levendale Dolphin Sands Stieglitz Parkside Parnella Emergency Assistance Grants assist people who have been directed or advised to evacuate from their residence and have been displaced or isolated by bushfires, to obtain essential and appropriate shelter, clothing, food, transport and/or personal items. Grant funds available are: $250 per adult (over 18 years) $125 per dependent child (under 18 years) and a maximum of $1,000 for any one family. Applications are closed. Helpful links Service Tasmania - Community Grants Tasmania Police - Road Closures and Community Alerts Australian Red Cross - Coping with a Crisis TasRECOVERY Facebook Page Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Where can I find information on the Dolphin Sands Clean-up Program? For more information on the clean-up program, go the Dolphin Sands Bushfire page You can also contact pitt&sherry, the specialists engaged to undertake safety and hazard assessments (environmental contamination and waste inspections) of properties, by emailing engagement@pittsh.com.au or calling 0482 166 711 . Where can I get help with a grant application? For help with making a grant application, contact the Grants Unit: Call: 1800 204 224 Operating hours: 9am - 5pm weekdays I have applied for a grant. How can I check on its progress? To check how your application is progressing, contact the Grants Unit: Call: 1800 204 224 Operating hours: 9am - 5pm weekdays Is there any other financial support available? Along with Emergency Assistance Grants, additional grants have been announced for residents of Dolphin Sands who have been impacted by the Southern Tasmania December 2025 Bushfires. See the Grants section on the Dolphin Sands Bushfire page To apply visit: Service Tasmania | Community Grants I have a private power pole that has been damaged. What happens with that? If you have a private power pole or infrastructure that has been damaged by the bushfire, you are responsible for its repair and reinstatement. If you are unsure about the ownership of poles and power infrastructure on your property, you can contact  TasNetworks. They may be able to assist with more information. Call: 132 004. For information on power line electrical contractors, please visit this website: Consumer, Building and Occupational Services My property was destroyed or damaged. What happens to my property value and rates? The Office of the Valuer-General and Resilience and Recovery Tasmania are working together to assess any loss of property value due to bushfire damage. The Office of the Valuer-General may automatically adjust your property value, where appropriate. You do not need to contact the Office of the Valuer-General. Property owners will receive a new valuation notice if an adjustment is made. The Office of the Valuer-General will communicate these values to local councils and the State Revenue Office. Can I donate goods or services? The generosity of the community is very much appreciated; however donated goods and assistance are not required at this time. Home About Media Releases Emergency Contacts Resources Accessibility Right to information Service Tasmania You are directed to the Disclaimer and copyright notice , a Personal Information Protection statement and Right to Information statement governing the information provided.