Tasmanian severe weather: 13 October 2022 onwards Skip to navigation Skip to main content Loading Menu  Menu Home Affairs Portfolio Disaster Assist pop-up content starts  Back Search Popular searches Your previous searches pop-up content ends  Tasmanian severe weather: 13 October 2022 onwards Quick Info State / Country TAS Name Tasmanian severe weather: 13 October 2022 onwards Start Date 13/10/2022 End Date AGRN 1,038 Related Links Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements 2018 ; Lost or damaged passports ; Tasmanian Department of Premier and Cabinet ; TasRecovery /Pages/related-links/disaster-recovery-funding-arrangements-2018.aspx ; https://www.passports.gov.au/passports-explained/how-apply/eligibility-citizenship-and-identity/replacement-passport ; http://www.dpac.tas.gov.au/divisions/osem ; https://alert.tas.gov.au/recovery/ 0 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 ; 1.00000000000000 Tasmanian severe weather: 13 October 2022 onwards Page Content ​​​​​​​Australian Government Disaster Recovery Payment The Australian Go​​​vernment Disaster Recovery Payment (AGDRP) provides one-off financial assistance to eligible Australians adversely affected by the floods in Tasmania. The rate of AGDRP is $1000 per eligible adult and $400 per eligible child. Claims for this payment can be lodged with Services Australia for a period up to 6 months. AGDRP is available for people who have been seriously injured, have lost their homes or whose homes have been directly damaged, whose major assets have been directly damaged or are the immediate family members of a person who has died as a direct result of the floods. You have until 17 April 2023 to lodge a claim for AGDRP in the six (6) local government areas of: Central Coast, Devonport, Kentish, Latrobe, Launceston and Meander Valley. For more information on eligibility, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance. New Zealand disaster recovery payment A grant payment is being provided to eligible New Zealand 'non-protected' special category visa (SCV) (subclass 444) holders who have been adversely affected by the floods in Tasmania. The payment rate is $1000 per eligible adult, $1000 per partner or dependent adult and $400 per eligible child. Claims for this payment can be lodged with Services Australia for a period of 6 months. The payment is available for SCV holders who have been seriously injured, have lost their homes or whose homes have been directly damaged, whose major assets have been directly damaged or are the immediate family members of a person who has died as a direct result of the floods. You have until 17 April 2023 to lodge a claim for the New Zealand disaster recovery payment in the six (6) local government areas of: Central Coast, Devonport, Kentish, Latrobe, Launceston and Meander Valley. For eligibility information, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance. Disaster Recovery Allowance The Disaster Recovery Allowance (DRA) provides income support payments to employees, primary producers and sole traders who can demonstrate they have experienced a loss of income as a direct result of the floods in Tasmania. DRA provides fortnightly payments for up to 13 weeks up to the applicable rate of JobSeeker Payment or Youth Allowance, depending on the person's circumstances. DRA is available to Australian residents who are 16 years and older. DRA is not available to those already receiving another income support payment or pension such as the Age Pension, JobSeeker Payment or Service Pension. You have until 16 June 2023 to lodge a claim for DRA in the eighteen (18) local government areas of: Break O’Day, Burnie, Central Coast, Central Highlands, Circular Head, Devonport, Dorset, Flinders, George Town, Glamorgan Spring Bay, Kentish, Latrobe, Launceston, Meander Valley, Northern Midlands, Waratah-Wynyard, West Coast and West Tamar. For eligibility information, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims for assistance. New Zealand disaster recovery allowance The New Zealand disaster recovery allowance is available to eligible New Zealand 'non-protected' special category visa (SCV) (subclass 444) holders who can demonstrate they have experienced a loss of income as a direct result of the floods in Tasmania. The disaster recovery allowance provides fortnightly payments for up to 13 weeks up to the applicable rate of JobSeeker Payment or Youth Allowance, depending on the person's circumstances. The allowance is available to SCV holders who are 16 years and older. You have until 16 June 2023 to lodge a claim for the New Zealand disaster recovery allowance in the eighteen (18) local government areas of: Break O’Day, Burnie, Central Coast, Central Highlands, Circular Head, Devonport, Dorset, Flinders, George Town, Glamorgan Spring Bay, Kentish, Latrobe, Launceston, Meander Valley, Northern Midlands, Waratah-Wynyard, West Coast and West Tamar. For more information on eligibility, visit the Services Australia website or contact the Australian Government Information Hotline on 180 22 66 for claims assistance. Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements The joint Australian, state and territory governments' Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA) provide a range of financial assistance to the natural disaster-declared areas in each state or territory. Assistance currently available under the DRFA includes: Emergency Assistance Grants of up to $1,000 ($250 per adult, $125 per dependent child) for individuals or family who have been: directed or advised by a relevant authority to evacuate from their residence displaced from their residence due to flooding ​Counter disaster operations Repair of essential public assets Community recovery officer​ Applications for both Emergency Assistance Grants and/or Temporary Emergency Accommodation can be made online: Emergency Assistance Grants If you need assistance applying – contact Tasmanian Emergency Information Service on 03 6145 5303. Additional Recovery Assistance Measures Under the DRFA, the following extraordinary assistance measures have been activated for this disaster: Primary Producer Recovery Grants: Recovery grants of up to $25,000 are available for eligible primary producers to help with recovery and reinstatement activities. Small Business and Non-Profit Organisation Recovery Grants: Recovery grants of up to $25,000 are available for eligible small businesses and non-profit organisations to help with recovery and reinstatement activities. ​Community and Recrea​​tional Asset​s Clean-up and Reconstruction Package to enable the clean-up and reconstruction of assets considered essential to the social and economic welfare, including funding for: Mountain bike trails Tasmania Parks and Wildlife service assets Reserves and recreation grounds Sporting facilities Wing’s wildlife park native animal hospital Private landholders support package: Recovery grants of up to $10,000 are available for eligible private landholders to help with recovery and reinstatement activities. For information on available recovery assistance, visit the Tas Alert website. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade will replace passports that have been lost or damaged in declared natural disasters free of charge, visit the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website. ​​ No The above assistance may be available in the following local government area(s) Break O'Day ; Burnie ; Central Coast ; Central Highlands ; Circular Head ; Devonport ; Dorset ; Flinders ; George Town ; Kentish ; Latrobe ; Launceston ; Meander Valley ; Northern Midlands ; Waratah-Wynyard ; West Coast ; West Tamar ; Glamorgan Spring Bay Need a hand? × Cancel Tell us what
                                                you think of this page Last updated: 22/01/2026 16:15 Print this page Home Affairs Portfolio Australian Border Force National Security Transport Security ​ Emergency Management Cyber Security Multicultural Affairs Find a disaster ​ Getting help ​ How to help Disaster arrangements About us Contact us Web privacy statement Accessibility of this website Access to information​ ​ Information publication scheme Copyright and disclaimer Privacy Back to top