Financial support for primary producers - TasALERT Skip to content Get Ready Alerts Recovery Recovery In an emergency call 000 Open main menu Incidents Fuel Supply Facts Read More Tasmania’s fuel supply is secure. We’re working with fuel suppliers, industry and others to monitor the situation. Financial support for primary producers Emergency Response Grant for Primary Producers Please note: This program has now closed to new applications. Tier 2 grants are only available to existing applicants who have received a Tier 1 grant. Tier 2 applications will close as per the timeframe below. These grants are designed to assist primary producers with clean-up and restoration activities resulting from October's Severe Weather Event. Grants are available to eligible primary producers in the following Local Government Areas: Break O’Day, Burnie, Central Coast, Central Highlands, Circular Head, Devonport, Dorset, Flinders, George Town, Glamorgan-Spring Bay, Kentish, Latrobe, Launceston, Meander Valley, Northern Midlands, Waratah-Wynyard, West Coast and West Tamar. Amount Tier 1: an initial one-off amount of $2,500 Tier 2: a subsequent one-off amount of up to $22,500 Closing date Tier 1: Closed Tier 2: 3pm Tuesday 30 April 2024 Apply This program has now closed to new applications. Tier 2 applications will close as per the timeframe above. Tier 2 grants are only available to existing applicants who have received a Tier 1 grant. More information Visit the NRE Tas website or call Farm Point on 1300 292 292 (9am - 5pm, Monday to Friday) The Emergency Response Grant for Primary Producers is jointly funded by the Commonwealth and Tasmanian governments under the Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements. Rural Relief Fund The Rural Relief Fund supports primary producers impacted by flood, drought and fire. Grants of up to $2,500 are available for anything from household goods, including food or utility bills, to fence repairs and fodder. Visit the Rural Business Tasmania website to apply for a grant or to donate to the Rural Relief Fund. Other support Primary Producers can contact the FarmPoint hotline on 1300 292 292 , or Business Tasmania on 1800 440 026 . Any producer who is suffering immediate financial hardship can also contact Rural Business Tasmania on 1300 88 3276 to access free financial counselling support. Home About Media Releases Emergency Contacts Resources Accessibility Right to information Service Tasmania You are directed to the Disclaimer and copyright notice , a Personal Information Protection statement and Right to Information statement governing the information provided.