=== PAGE 1 ===
              ANNUAL REPORT
                     1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020



                                    VISION

           Gilgandra Shire is a strong and sustainable rural centre
          with a caring community that is building a future together.





=== PAGE 2 ===
                                 MESSAGE FROM THE MAYOR

It is my pleasure to present the Gilgandra Shire Council 2019/2020 Annual Report.

The Gilgandra Shire, like many of our rural counterparts has endured the effects of a record
breaking three year drought. At the time of writing, the green shoots of recovery are very
evident and the entire community is living in anticipation of a bumper harvest. Despite the
drought, Council has experienced a productive year in respect to capital investment across
the shire.

The 2019/20 report incorporates the Integrated Planning and Reporting (IP&R) Framework.
The report is closely aligned with the Gilgandra Shire Community Strategic Plan 2017/18 to
2026/27 and associated documents.

Reflecting on the year, the highlight has been the mutual support and resilience of our
wonderful community. Our support for each other both in addressing the impacts of the
drought, and more recently the COVID-19 pandemic, has proven to be a source of
inspiration to many.

Gilgandra Shire is fortunate to have a strong and united Councillor group. This also includes
our dedicated staff from the General Manager, Directors, and all staff – indoor, outdoor
and community services. Each of them plays an important role in ensuring that Gilgandra
remains a sustainable and vibrant rural service centre as well as an amazing place to
LIVE> ENJOY>GROW.

There have been many achievements for Gilgandra Shire over the past 12 months. I
encourage you to read through our annual report, to gain a more in-depth understanding of
what a rural council can and does achieve. I believe the report gives credence to the fact
that within the industry and government, Gilgandra Shire Council is regularly referred to as
an organisation that punches above its weight.

I sincerely thank Deputy Mayor (Cr Ash Walker), fellow Councillors, together with General
Manager (Mr David Neeves), our Directors and every member of our staff. We work hard as
an entity with service delivery at its core.

I commend this report to you and trust it will provide you with valuable information on the
operations and management of your local government area.




Doug Batten
Mayor












                                                        2
                                                      - 2 -=== PAGE 3 ===
                      MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER

The financial year of 2019-20 … the year of extreme drought, bushfires, floods and then the
pandemic!  Fortunately Gilgandra escaped the impacts of any serious bushfires, however
the impact of the drought with another failed cropping season caused financial stress on all
business within our shire.

Late summer gave an indication that the seasons were about to change with the first signs
of rain. Through Autumn, rain was becoming more regular and the possibility a productive
season was imminent. Spirits were buoyed until the outbreak of the pandemic.

Throughout the year Council was very active in sourcing external grant funding to act as a
cash injection into our economy.  The Federal Government announcement of another $1M
funding for community infrastructure projects through the Drought Communities Programme
and $878,444 through the Local Roads and Community Infrastructure Programme was
welcomed.

Council’s heavy involvement in community services, particularly servicing the vulnerable
sections of our community such as Aged Care, Disability Services, Home Care, Meals on
Wheels and other Community Care services was our focus. Thanks to the concerted effort of
all staff, Council responded proactively and managed the situation professionally with great
results and this will remain the primary highlight for the year.

On reflection, key activation projects for the year were:

   the Winter Wonderland promotion which activated the main street during July 2019
   the 2019 Shop Local Program which created significant impact in the lead up to
    Christmas 2019 with a $50,000 program. With over 17,500 entries and envelopes
    averaging approximately $85 in tax receipts, this directly contributed over $1.4M to the
    Gilgandra economy. There were 50 lucky winners of $1,000 Cooee Cash Cards!
   Council’s 12 Days of Christmas promotion at ‘the GIL’ and the #GilgandraGiftGuide
    digital campaign, were run concurrently with the Shop Local Program.  All businesses
    within the Shire, including those without a shop front, were part of the program.
   Completion of an activation blueprint for the Gilgandra township, bringing many projects
    and ideas resulting in an eight point plan:

        1.  Strengthen the structure plan for the township
        2.  Create a CBD community Hub - The Gil
        3.  Connect the CBD tourist anchor and revitalised river corridor
        4.  Create gateway entrance
        5.  Activate key CBD spaces
        6.  Support local businesses to thrive
        7.  Build on local and community events
        8.  Strengthen an industrial and agribusiness precinct







                                                        3
                                                      - 3 -=== PAGE 4 ===
$8.2M of capital works projects were completed during the year, with notable projects being:

   Purchase of 30-32 Miller Street for the Purpose of a Library/Community Hub
   The commencement of the Works Depot upgrades which includes a new workshop, store
    and administration buildings, aggregate and emulsion storage areas, new essential
    services, road pavement and drainage
   The commencement of the Specialist Disability Accommodation (2 and 3 bedroom ‘Pods’
    or ‘Townhouses’) for residents with low care needs who are, to a degree, self-sufficient -
    The development includes associated staff and administration  areas, common areas,
    services upgrades and landscaping
   Completion of a new stairway to access the water storage tower known as Reservoir 1
   Completion of two new commercial kitchens in the Cooee Lodge Aged Care Hostel
   Ongoing upgrades to our local road network continued with Council undertaking $1.3 M
    of bitumen reseals and gravel resheeting funded through the Roads to Recovery
    program and a further $223,500 was spent through the additional roads allocation on
    resheeting

Council was unable to complete all of the intended of gravel resheeting program due to the
drought and lack of accessible water.

Separate storm events in March and then again in April resulted in two Natural Disaster
declarations. The process to assess the level of damage and to submit the claim was
commenced and the necessary emergent works completed.  Restoration work was unable to
be commenced prior to 30 June due to the comprehensive assessment process involved.

Council delivered an annual financial result end of year result of $174,733 deficit over all of
Council (depreciation not included) which was an improvement of $9,952 from the start of
the 19/20 year. Council’s cash and investments as at 30 June 2020 was $30,497,769 - up
from $24,919,864 at the same time the previous year.

On behalf of Council l would like to thank the committed volunteers who continue to go
above and beyond to support our community in so many ways.

I look forward to a continued good working relationship between Councillors and staff as we
work towards achieving the objectives set out in Council’s Community Strategic Plan and
Delivery Program.








David Neeves

General Manager






                                                       4
                                                      - 4 -=== PAGE 5 ===
                                                COUNCILLORS

This Council area is undivided, with no ridings, and has nine (9) elected representatives:


















































           Cr Doug Batten                            Cr Ash Walker                            Cr Susan Baker

                 Mayor                                Deputy Mayor











           Cr Gina Johnson                          Cr Brian Mockler                         Cr Noel Mudford

          Resigned 29/11/19











          Cr Deidrie Naden                            Cr Greg Peart                           Cr Noel Wrigley




















                                                             5
                                                           - 5 -=== PAGE 6 ===
                                COUNCIL AND COMMITTEES


Council Meetings

Council met on the third Tuesday of every month throughout 2019/20 at 4.00pm.


Council Committees

Council activities were managed by        the following Committees:

o   Aged Care Committee
o   Disability Services Committee
o   Economic Development Committee
o   Sports Council
o   Tooraweenah Management Committee

Council was also advised by:

o   Consultative Committee
o   Interagency Committee
o   Health & Safety Committee
o   Traffic Committee
o   Tooraweenah Community Technology Centre Management Committee
o   Curban Community Hall & Tennis Management               Committee
o   Tooraweenah Memorial Hall Committee
o   Shire Hall User Group

Council was represented on the following external bodies            and representatives for     2019/20
were:

 Councillors/Staff                                      Committee
 Cr Batten, Cr Peart                                    Castlereagh Macquarie County Council
 Cr Wrigley                                             North West Library
 Mayor (as Local Member’s representative)               Traffic
 Cr Peart, Cr Mockler                                   Joint Regional Planning Panel
 Cr Naden                                               Orana Arts Board
 Mayor                                                  Orana Joint Organisation
 Manager Works                                          Orana Water Utilities Alliance















                                                     6
                                                    - 6 -=== PAGE 7 ===
Council Documents

Council has produced a number of documents that outline information about Council plans
and activities.  These include:

    o   Community Strategic Plan 2017/18 – 2026/27
    o   Delivery Program 2017/18 – 2020/21
    o   Operational Plan 2019/20
    o   Long Term Financial Plan 2019/20 – 2028/29
    o   Asset Management Plans          – Buildings, Transport, Stormwater, Water & Sewer
    o   Community Engagement Strategy
    o   Statutory Annual Report
    o   EEO Management Plan
    o   Workforce Plan
    o   Disability Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP)
    o   McGrane Oval Masterplan

The public are able to access these documents by visiting Council’s website or by contacting
Council’s administration building in Warren Road, Gilgandra.


Council’s Website

This site, www.gilgandra.nsw.gov.au contains important contact information as well as
media releases, positions vacant, tenders, application forms, news and events.


Public Officer

Mr Neil Alchin is Council’s Public Officer and is responsible for co-ordination of Government
Information (Public Access) Act matters.


























                                                       7
                                                      - 7 -=== PAGE 8 ===
                                              COUNCIL EMPLOYEES

Gilgandra Shire Council currently employs 201 people (FTE).

                                                  General Manager












                                                     David Neeves


                                          Administrative Divisions


                   Director                                                              Director
          Corporate Services                                                         Infrastructure











                   Neil Alchin                                                        Daryl Colwell


                    Director                                                            Director
          Community Services                                                Planning & Environment











                Jo Manion                                                           Lindsay Mathieson





                                                              8
                                                            - 8 -=== PAGE 9 ===
                             COUNCIL’S ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE

                                                                  Council                           Castlereagh Macquarie
                                                                                                    Weeds County Council


             Governance                                   General Manager                                 Special Projects



              Planning &                      Infrastructure               Corporate Services                    Community
             Environment                                                                                           Services


            Development &                   Roads Transport                Financial Services
           Building Control                   infrastructure                                                      Aged Care

         Waste Management                 Traffic Management              Integrated Planning &               Disability Services
                                                                                Reporting


          Strategic Land Use                 Fleet Services                  Administration &                  Youth Services
                Planning                                                    Customer Service


         Building Maintenance             Depot Management                  Risk Management                    Library Services


            Ranger Services                  RMS Contracts                     Community                      Community Care
                                                                               Engagement                          Services


           Heritage Services                  Street Trees                Government Access                     Homelessness
                                                                                 Services                          Support



         Regulatory Services               Parks & Gardens                       Tourism                      Community Halls


         Natural Environment                   Emergency                        Economic                     Community Housing
           & Climate Change                   Management                      Development

                                             Water & Sewer                      Cemetery                      Sporting Facilities
                                                Services                      Management


                                              Aerodromes                   Asset Management                   Medical Services
                                                                                                                    Liaison

                                              Road Safety                  Human Resources                  Interagency Support








                                                                     9
                                                                   - 9 -=== PAGE 10 ===
                                      STRATEGIC DIRECTION

Council’s direction is set by a 10 year Community Strategic Plan and 4 Year Delivery
Program (Council’s business plan) which were reviewed at the beginning of 2017.  These
plans included a number of long term outcomes for our community developed under eight
themes: Sense of Place, Community Engagement, Land Use Planning and Sustainable
Environment, Strategic Leadership, Economic Development, Asset Management and
Service Delivery, Legislation and By-Laws and Representation and Collaboration.

1.  Sense of Place
     1.1   An active community with a focus on physical and mental wellbeing
     1.2  A community that has great pride and instils this pride from a young age
     1.3  A community with access to quality health, welfare, education, early childhood,
          sporting, recreational, cultural and technological services and facilities
     1.4  A collaborative community where services are integrated, match our community needs
          and are sustainable
     1.5  A community that encourages Aboriginal leadership and pride.
     1.6  A community where volunteerism thrives
     1.7  A safe community with minimal crime and anti           -social behaviour

2.  Community Engagement
     2.1  A transparent Council that keeps its community informed, encourages and facilitates
          community input into its decision making process
     2.2  A Council that delivers good customer          service to our community

3.   Land Use Planning and Sustainable Environment
     3.1  A Council that works with the community to create an environment that guides the use
          of land to balance economic, environmental and community/social values
     3.2  A community that proactively minimises the environmental impacts of waste and
          maximises waste resource recovery rates
     3.3  A community aware of climate change that strives to reduce its ecological footprint

4.   Strategic Leadership
     4.1  A Council that provides quality leadership governance and management to its
          community
     4.2   A Council that focuses on strategic planning and financial sustainability.

5.   Economic Development
     5.1  A community with a strong and diverse economic base that supports and improves the
          lifestyle of its residents
     5.2  A community with a reputation as a great place to live, stop, stay or just spend time                and
          where visitors are welcomed and embraced





                                                        10
                                                      - 10 -=== PAGE 11 ===
6.   Asset Management & Service Delivery
     6.1  A community with well constructed, maintained and managed public infrastructure
          including water and sewer infrastructure, public buildings and facilities, plant and
          equipment
     6.2  A community serviced by a safe, reliable and efficient transport network.
     6.3  A community with quality green spaces that encourage people to be active and involved
          in their natural surrounds

7.   Legislation and Bylaws
     7.1  A Council that applies legislation, develops and maintains policies that support the local
          community

8.   Representation and Collaboration
     8.1  A Council that engages with other councils and spheres of government to represent
          and advocate the needs of its community








































                                                         11
                                                       - 11 -=== PAGE 12 ===
                                        HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2019/20
1. Sense of Place
     Average of 25 students attending Breakfast Club each school morning
     Meals on wheels delivered to approx. 25 clients, five days per week
     22 supported employment positions at Carlginda Enterprises
     Upgraded kitchens for Cooee Lodge Hostel
     Renovation of a further two rooms within Cooee Lodge Hostel
     Renovation of two villa units within Cooee Retirement Village
     Implementation of an electronic care planning system at Jack Towney and Cooee Lodge
      Hostels, providing real time individual health data
     Connection of Orana Living homes to the internet to enable residents to keep in touch with
      family and friends
     McGrane Oval Masterplan improvements


2. Community Engagement
     Community applications for Drought Communities (DCP) and Stronger Country
      Communities (SCC) grant funding programs
     Assisting community groups with grant applications
     Community consultation on:
      o  Youth Technology spaces
      o  Community Care services
      o  Shop Local Program feedback from businesses
      o  Shire Signage
      o  Coo-ee Heritage Centre
     Implementation of volunteer connection during COVID including “Gladis” phone tree
     Implementation of new staff uniforms


3. Land Use Planning and Sustainable Environment
     Funding of 6 projects under the Local Heritage Fund
     Continued Dark Sky Park Membership
     Continued Netwaste membership
     Partnership with Corrective Services for litter pick at        Gilgandra Waste Facility
     Successful implementation of a waste transfer truck at the Gilgandra Waste Facility
     Participation in the Aussie Backyard Bird Count
     Increase in volume of material recycled by 90 tonnes to 771 tonnes


4. Strategic Leadership
     All compliance tasks completed within legislative timeframes
     21 grant applications lodged






                                                        12
                                                      - 12 -=== PAGE 13 ===
5.  Economic Development
     Winter Wonderland activation program and event
     Continued progress to develop additional industrial land
     12 days of Christmas promotion at The Gil
     Shop Local program - $50,000
     Inland rail preparedness initiatives continued
     Gilgandra Activation Blueprint

6.  Asset Management and Service Delivery
     Construction of new bore for Tooraweenah water supply
     1.2km reconstruction along John Renshaw Parkway
     Additional 4km reconstruction along Berida Bullagreen Road
     14km gravel resheeting on unsealed roads
     13k resealing on rural road network including urban streets
     Emergent works in response to the Natural Disaster declarations (March and April)
     Construction of southern intersection servicing Gilgandra Industrial Estate
     Construction of Berakee Quarry intersection
     Extension of RMCC network under management (State Highways in Warren Shire)
     Business case for a new sewer treatment plant formulated
     Completion of stairwell at Reservoir 1
     Extension to Gilgandra Preschool building
     Purchase of former Target building to house Library and Community Hub
     Commencement of Gilgandra Works Depot upgrade
     Commencement of specialist disability accommodation project at 59 Waugan Street
     Installation of a litter fence around the new landfill cell at Gilgandra Waste Facility
     Commencement of new SES headquarters building project
     Commencement of walking track linking GK Rohr Viewing Platform to the Tooraweenah
      village
     Completion of shade structure at Armatree to house history boards
     Improvements to country halls at Curban, Tooraweenah and Armatree

7. Legislation and By-Laws
     Achieved an unqualified audit result
     Development applications approved totalling $           9,197,127

8. Representation and Collaboration
     Continued representation in relation to Inland Rail
     Membership of Orana Joint Organisation










                                                        13
                                                      - 13 -=== PAGE 14 ===
                                      CHALLENGES FOR 2019/20
1. Sense of Place
     Sporting and recreational precinct planning
     COVID-19 challenges – dramatic changes were made to service delivery to enable
      continued support the Gilgandra community.  These include:
      o  Establishment of a “click and collect” service or home delivery of books and DVDs to
         people isolated in their homes
      o  Redeployment of volunteers to run the “GLADIS” phone tree, ensuring people isolated
         by the lock down had regular contact from a friendly voice
      o  Collaboration with IGA Supermarket to set up early morning opening hours for front line
         aged care and health services
      o  Changes to service structure to support Orana Living residents in lockdown
      o  Implementation of safe visiting arrangements at Cooee Lodge and Jack Towney Hostels
         to protect residents and keep them connected to their family and friends
      o  Increasing meals on wheels deliveries to six days per week


2. Community Engagement
     CHC Aboriginal Stakeholder group consultation was postponed
     Staff communication moved to digital with COVID implications
     Customer Service moved to off-site locations
     Keeping up to date with changes of COVID and ensuring these were communicated to the
      community timely and accurately
     Loss of valuable volunteers


3. Land Use Planning and Sustainable Environment
     Removal of asbestos from damaged awning over public footpath
     Discontinuation of recycling due to COVID-19
     Cancelled projects and programs – Shellharbour, Partnership agreement with NetWaste
      and Ozharvest
     Waste to Art program changed to online format


4.  Strategic Leadership
     COVID-19 challenges – staff working from home

5.  Economic Development
     Industrial Development – Graincorp South


6.  Asset Management and Service Delivery
     Extensive damage to road network experienced due to three consecutive Natural Disaster
      events
     Lucas Bridge replacement





                                                       14
                                                      - 14 -=== PAGE 15 ===
                 STATUTORY ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

Financial Statements     S428 (4)(a)

Council’s audited financial reports are available on our website.
http://www.gilgandra.nsw.gov.au/Your-Council/About-Council/Financial-information/Financial-Statements

Delivery of Services             S428 (3)

Council’s Community Strategic Plan 201              7/18 – 2026/27, Delivery Program 2017/18-2020/21
and Operational Plan for 2019/20 is available on our website:
http://www.gilgandra.nsw.gov.au/Your-Council/About-Council/Plans-Strategies

The report on the review of Council’s 2019/20 Operational Plan as at 30 June 2020 is also
available on our website:
http://www.gilgandra.nsw.gov.au/Your-Council/About-Council/Plans-Strategies

State of the Environment       S428A

The Greater Central West Councils’ Regional State of the Environment Report 2019/20
(Gilgandra snapshot) is available on our website:
http://www.gilgandra.nsw.gov.au/Your-Council/About-Council/Plans-Strategies

Rates and Charges Written off     Cl 132

An amount of $964.92 was written off during the year.  In addition, Council has a policy of
writing off water charges less than $2.00 which are considered uneconomic to recover.
Compulsory pensioner rebates for the period total $130,893.30.

Overseas visits           Cl 217 (1)(a)

During the period, Council did not fund any overseas trips for councillors, council staff or
other persons.

Elected Representatives     Cl 217 (1)(a1)(i-viii)

 Election expenses                                                                                 Nil
 Mayoral allowance                                                                      $27,678.98
 Councillor fees                                                                      $100,375.70
 Councillor /delegate expenses                                                          $22,304.28
 Telephone costs                                                                                   Nil
 Dedicated office equipment                                                                        Nil
 Conference/seminar attendance                                                                     Nil
 Training and skill development                                                                    Nil
 Interstate visits                                                                                 Nil
 Overseas visits                                                                                   Nil
 Expenses of any spouse, partner or other person who                                               Nil
 accompanied a councillor
 Expenses involved in the provision of care for a child or an                                      Nil
 immediate family member of a councillor





                                                          15
                                                         - 15 -=== PAGE 16 ===
Major Contracts Awarded     cl 217 (1)(a2)(i,ii)

In 2019/20 Council entered into the following contracts:

   Works Depot Upgrade – Structen Pty Ltd, $3,543,382.30
   Cooee Lodge Hostel Kitchens Upgrade – Glenn Healey Constructions Pty Ltd,
    $564,971.00
   Specialist Disability Accommodation Project – Westbury Constructions Pty Ltd,
    $2,642,231.95
   Supply and delivery of concrete pipes (through Hunter Regional Procurement) – Holcim
    (Australia) Pty Ltd trading as Humes
   Collection and recycling of Waste Tyres (through Netwaste) – JLW Services Pty Ltd

Legal Proceedings    cl 217 (1)(a3)

Council incurred legal costs relating to outstanding Rates and Charges totalling
$4,128.00 and $35,894.20 in general legal costs.

When Council commences legal proceedings for recovery of outstanding debts, it utilises a
debt collection agency.  All the above costs are recoverable from the individual debtors.

Council is now on a deferred cost arrangement with the current collection
agency.  Ratepayers involved in legal proceedings pay legal costs directly to the Collection
Agency, therefore no charges are levied on the rate card.  If a ratepayer chooses to pay
directly to Council, only then is the charge levied to the rate card.

Council has full control over the debt collector’s actions as each stage of the recovery
process must be authorised by Council before the Agency can proceed.

Private Works   S67, 67(2)(b) cl 217 (1)(a4)

All private works are carried out on the basis of an estimate - recovery of labour (plus on
costs for holidays, etc) as well as standard charges for plant and materials (charged at cost)
plus a margin on total costs.

Council adopted its Fees and Charges at its meeting on 23 June 2020.  A detailed plant hire
charge schedule, and a copy of these Fees and Charges, is available at Council’s office
upon request.  No private works were subsidised in 2019/20.

Contributions/Donations    S356, cl 217 (1)(a5)

Contributions/donations under Section 356 of the Local Government Act 1993 for 2019/20
total $26,583.75

External Bodies Exercising Council Functions    cl 217 (1)(a6)

o   Castlereagh Macquarie County Council has been delegated Council’s powers in relation
    to noxious weeds.

Controlling Interest in Corporations     cl 217 (1)(a7)

Council has no controlling interests in any company




                                                        16
                                                      - 16 -=== PAGE 17 ===
Partnerships, Co-operatives and Joint Ventures    cl 217 (1)(a8)

Council is not involved in any partnerships or joint ventures, but is, however, a member of
the North West Regional Library Co-operative and Orana Arts.  Gilgandra Shire Council is
the lead Council in a RMS Roads Maintenance agreement with Warren Shire Council.

Activities to Implement EEO Management Plan    cl 217 (1)(a9)

Council continues to review and monitor its EEO Management Plan to ensure that its
principles are applied in all Council operations in dealing with both staff and the public.
A copy of this document is available on our website:
http://www.gilgandra.nsw.gov.au/Your-Council/About-Council/Plans-Strategies

Council has a formal policy for EEO implementation in the workplace                   and such information is
communicated to new         employees as part of induction        .

A breakdown of Council’s employees as at 30 June 2020                  is a follows:

 Number of employees:                       246    Number of Aboriginal employees:                          37
 Number of female employees:                147    Number of female aboriginal employees:                   23
 Number male employees:                      99    Number of male aboriginal employees:                     14

Senior Staff     cl 217(1)(b)(i-v)

General Manager, Mr David Neeves, was the only member of Council’s staff to qualify as
“senior staff” under the Local Government Act 1993.  For 2019/20, his remuneration
package was $277,364 including employer’s contribution to superannuation, non-cash
benefits and fringe benefits tax.

Stormwater    cl 217(1)(e)

1,943m of stormwater mains were cleaned, CCTV inspected and condition rated. Blockages
due to debris, tree roots and foreign objects were cleared.

Companion Animals    cl 217(1)(f)

Council’s expenditure for 2019/20 was $170,922.04 which includes employment of a ranger.

Income for the year was $19,984.83 from companion animal fees and charges, made up of:

 Fines                                    $15,488.82
 Registrations                                       Nil
 Microchipping                                $491.01
 Impounding fees                           $4,005.00
 Sales                                               Nil

Pound data collection returns have been lodged with the Office of Local Government.

There were 6 dog attacks reported in the twelve month period.

Education programs were conducted on topics including                 responsible pet ownership,
swimming pools and animal welfare.




                                                       17
                                                      - 17 -=== PAGE 18 ===
Facebook and Council’s website were used extensively and successfully to advertise for
animal owners and to promote education programs.

An effective rescue network has been established thus reducing the numbers of animals
euthanased. The statistics for the past twelve months are:

                  Number               %                %                 %
                impounded          released      rescued/sold        destroyed
 Cats                71               0%              19%                80%
 Dogs                132             50%              19%                28%

Designated off leash areas include the outside of Ernie Knight Oval and an area to the north
of the Cooee Heritage Centre.

Swimming Pools    Swimming Pools Act 1992 s22F (1), SP Reg cl 23

Number of inspections of tourist and visitor accommodation = 0
Number of inspections of premises with more than 2 dwellings = 0
Number of inspections that resulted in issue of certificate of compliance under s 22D = 7
Number of inspections that resulted in issue of certificate of non-compliance under cl 21 = 0


GIPA Activity    s125 (1), cl 7 schedule 2

 Number of formal GIPA applications                        Nil
 processed for the period 2019/20:

 Number of informal GIPA applications                      Nil
 processed for the period 2019/20:

Public Interest Disclosures    s31, cl 4

Council has a Public Interest Disclosure Reporting Policy in place.
There were no public interest disclosures made in 2019/20.

NOTE:   A hard copy of any document listed as being available on our website can be
          obtained from Council’s administration office.

















                                                       18
                                                     - 18 -=== PAGE 19 ===
Disability Inclusion Action Plan - Disability Inclusion Act 2014, s 13(1)

Council’s activities to implement actions for the plan have been hampered this year by the
impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many of the ongoing actions such as promoting new
employment opportunities and volunteer involvement in services were suspended mid-year
due to closure of these services. Despite this restriction, Council has undertaken the
following actions:

    Positive Attitudes and Behaviour
       Continued facilitation of work experience for Orana Living clients  at 2WAR FM
        Community Radio and Australia Post
       Prior to cessation due to COVID-19 , Orana Living clients undertook, with support,
        Meals on Wheels deliveries, operation of Swimming Pool turnstiles and delivery of
        Council’s internal mail
       Needs of people with a disability considered in all planning projects and
        developments undertaken by Council

    Liveable Communities
       Consideration given to accessibility when planning activities and events run by
        Council
       Creation of additional footpaths to link key facilities
       Construction of picnic facilities in Hunter Park, providing wheelchair access in line
        with Australian Standards
       Council promotes the availability of community transport options
       Commencement of construction of a new specialist disability accommodation
        promoting independent living for up to 13 people

    Service systems and processes
       Considered of universal design principles for new planning projects and
        developments undertaken by Council
       Ensuring all new policy and services seek to maximise access for people with a
        disability including delivery of information in accessible formats
       Effort being made to ensure language is simple and appropriate
       Upgrade of IT systems to all Orana Living facilities to promote access to information
        and remote services, build and maintain social and family connections



















                                                        19
                                                      - 19 -