=== PAGE 1 ===
                                  INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

                             Report on the general purpose financial statements
                                                  Albury City Council



To the Councillors of the Albury City Council
Opinion
I have audited the accompanying financial statements of Albury City Council (the Council), which
comprise the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended
30 June 2019, the Statement of Financial Position as at 30 June 2019, the Statement of Changes in
Equity and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, notes comprising a summary of
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, and the Statement by Councillors
and Management.

In my opinion:

•         the Council’s accounting records have been kept in accordance with the requirements of the
       Local Government Act 1993, Chapter 13, Part 3, Division 2 (the Division)
•         the financial statements:
       -        have been presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the requirements of this
               Division
       -        are consistent with the Council’s accounting records
       -        present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Council as at
               30 June 2019, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended
               in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards
•         all information relevant to the conduct of the audit has been obtained
•         no material deficiencies in the accounting records or financial statements have come to light
       during the audit.

My opinion should be read in conjunction with the rest of this report.
Basis for Opinion
I conducted my audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. My responsibilities under the
standards are described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements’
section of my report.

I am independent of the Council in accordance with the requirements of the:

•         Australian Auditing Standards
•         Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 ‘Code of Ethics for
       Professional Accountants’ (APES 110).

I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with APES 110.








=== PAGE 2 ===
Parliament promotes independence by ensuring the Auditor-General and the Audit Office of
New South Wales are not compromised in their roles by:

•         providing that only Parliament, and not the executive government, can remove an
       Auditor-General
•         mandating the Auditor-General as auditor of councils
•         precluding the Auditor-General from providing non-audit services.

I believe the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my
audit opinion.
Other Information
The Council’s annual report for the year ended 30 June 2019 includes other information in addition to
the financial statements and my Independent Auditor’s Report thereon. The Councillors are
responsible for the other information. At the date of this Independent Auditor’s Report, the other
information I have received comprise the special purpose financial statements and Special Schedules
(the Schedules).

My opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. Accordingly, I do not
express any form of assurance conclusion on the other information. However, as required by the Local
Government Act 1993, I have separately expressed an opinion on the special purpose financial
statements and Special Schedule - Permissible income for general rates.

In connection with my audit of the financial statements, my responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements or my knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.

If, based on the work I have performed, I conclude there is a material misstatement of the other
information, I must report that fact.

I have nothing to report in this regard.
The Councillors’ Responsibilities for the Financial Statements
The Councillors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Local Government Act 1993, and for such
internal control as the Councillors determine is necessary to enable the preparation and fair
presentation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Councillors are responsible for assessing the Council’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting except where the Council will be dissolved or
amalgamated by an Act of Parliament, or otherwise cease operations.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
My objectives are to:

•         obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
       material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error
•         issue an Independent Auditor’s Report including my opinion.

Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee an audit conducted in
accordance with Australian Auditing Standards will always detect material misstatements.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error. Misstatements are considered material if, individually or in
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions users take based
on the financial statements.=== PAGE 3 ===
A description of my responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at the Auditing
and Assurance Standards Board website at: www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar4.pdf. The
description forms part of my auditor’s report.

My opinion does not provide assurance:

•         that the Council carried out its activities effectively, efficiently and economically
•         on the Original Budget information included in the Income Statement, Statement of Cash Flows,
        and Note 19 Material budget variations
•         on the Special Schedules. A separate opinion has been provided on Special
        Schedule - Permissible income for general rates
•         about the security and controls over the electronic publication of the audited financial
        statements on any website where they may be presented
•         about any other information which may have been hyperlinked to/from the financial statements.







Lawrissa Chan
Director, Financial Audit Services

Delegate of the Auditor-General for New South Wales



28 October 2019
SYDNEY

